The Mouth
Season of Dreams, Day of Pawns, Migration of Tortoise and Serpent, 15th Cycle of The Age of Grasses
In the pursuit of professional passions, you’ll eventually find that you’ve lost your confidence. You’ll have no idea where you left it, and you’ll briefly wonder if maybe someone stole it-- if maybe a monster came and ate it while you weren’t looking. Regardless of what you think, or how long it takes you to notice, you’ll be left with a hollow feeling where your contentment used to be.
At the beginning of this story, I was drowning in that unique misery and had long since resigned myself to its ministrations. I would have remained resigned, if I hadn’t received the following letter.
#
I learned something new about myself.
I don’t think anyone’s noticed. I don’t know that I’ve really noticed. I only ever get the impression, the shadow, the wake of whatever it is. It doesn’t give me any problems, not really. It’s only the suspicion, the anxiety. I can feel it here, right here, just a little left of my pons-- maybe in the skull, maybe out.
It just feels like an overripe itch, like an absence, like the faintly humming space between the walls of a bell. It really sets my teeth on edge, it makes me tired, makes me hazy. It makes me want to chase it down, ask it questions, bare tooth to flesh, beat my head against the stone until my brains leak out like runny grey yolks.
Isn’t that ludicrous?
It’s happening right now, but truth be owned that doesn’t even sound right. It feels like it’s always happening, just that sometimes things quiet down enough for me to hear it.
I think I’ve done it to myself, just because this feels like me, if that makes sense?
I don’t know, Simon. I know I’m not making sense. I just was hoping you could help me out. It’s getting worse by the day and I have no idea what’s wrong.
~Your Friend, Vincent
#
Now, the chief issue was that I didn’t know any Vincents. So, I set it aside and let it lie, operating on the assumption that it had been improperly addressed. Though, I couldn’t quite bring myself to throw it out or return to the post Entity.
Then I got cozy, nestling in the shag beneath my desk, as I’d been doing for migrations.
        I woke, a week and a half later, to the sound of mail. ‘Twice in two weeks?’ I thought, alarmed. I poked my head out. “Cynthia!” I hissed. “Cynthia!”
        There was a rumbling, scraping, sound from the top of my desk and a few moments later a marble harpy poked their head out over the edge of the desk. “Yes?” They rasped.
        “Go check the mail for me.” Then I remembered, “But uh, don’t bring it back if its from--”
        Before I finished, the construct rolled its eyes and began to lumber, thud, and rasp its way off my desk and to the door. “I think I’ve got the drill figured, at this point. Thud! Rasp! Thud! Rasp!” There was a squeak as the door swung open and then a pause. Next I heard, Cynthia was walking back to me, and a moment later peered around the left hand drawers, “Maker?”
        “What?”
        “The hall is wrong.”
        My brows knit together. “What do you mean?”
        It blinked. “It isn’t ours.”
        I uncurled my body and came a little into the light. “What?” I rubber necked around the lip of my desk. I looked out and stared at the open door. I hadn’t come out of the office in a long time but I remembered that the wallpaper hadn’t been like that. But it seemed like too much trouble to notice that, and I wasn’t entirely sure that my memory was serving me properly. “Someone’s just redecorated, Cynthia.” I returned to the underside of the desk.
        “Who?”
        “I don’t know, maybe one of the house daemons staged a revolt and this is the livery of the new order.” I rubber necked again, squinting, “Yeah. Blue on light-blue polka dots, it screams conquest.”
        “Seems like a pretty big ‘maybe’ to fit into nine days. And besides, I talk to the house daemons. Everything is still domestic without you.”
        “Well what do you think it means?”
        “I was hoping you would tell me. You’re the magician, after all.”
        I stared at the open door. My heart doesn’t beat anymore but I got the sense that if it could, it’d be making a desperate bid for anywhere out of my chest. How long had I been in the office? Why should I leave now?
I glanced at Cynthia and got the impression that they wouldn’t mind seeing me ambulate, so I found a backbone. “I guess I’ll just go and investigate, then.”
I freed myself from the bowels of my desk and made my way to the door in a very ungainly way; seeming to have forgotten some of the nuances of walking. But, when I came to the door, I realized that I had zero intention of truly investigating, and shut the great oaken thing.
        I turned from the door and found myself staring at the hall. Somehow, I had shut myself out of my own office. I turned back around to go back inside and found no door at all, just a stretch of blue wallpaper.
        If I still had skin or blood I might’ve blanched. Deprived of that option, I instead I fell into a very loud and outward panic. “Cynthia!?” I moaned. “CYNTHIA! FUCK ME!!! ARDEO!? CYNTHIA!?” I screamed loud enough to make the timbers rattle, my eyes lolling like a mad horse. And then I remembered something very key to these proceedings.
        I was stark naked.
        This isn’t the same sort of problem for me as it is for you flesh and blood types. I don’t have anything that dangles or flops. I don’t have skin that wrinkles or awkward spaces to mind as I’m made out of tin alloys. Besides, I’m a magician of surpassing skill, if I had any of the aforementioned bits they still wouldn’t be the problem here. I just have an intense fear of being seen as vulnerable.
        I went ahead and ripped a curtain off the wall, swaddling myself before anyone could come along. But nobody did, and I realized I was all alone, draped in a tacky chambray curtain with a surplus of plaster and rod. In the din of silence I soaked in the ridiculousness of my situation and the fear started to cede.
I let my eyes roam the hall and noticed that there were no windows. I glanced down at the curtain, accusatorily. “Well then what were you covering?”
        I checked. Smooth wall. I knocked on the plaster. No hollow sounding thud. There was nothing in the hall except more hall. In fact, the more I stared, the more hall there seemed to be. It kept snaking on a little more every time my eyes shifted until it resembled a road more than a hall-- wending a little more inward than outward.
        I can’t get high, so that was right out. Maybe I was just going insane, or having one of those unbidden extraordinary experiences. I guessed that it could also be that I’d been magically abducted from my home and transported to some strange demesne. But frankly I preferred the implication of abject insanity to abduction.
        Given that I had limited choices and the hall seemed to be going the same way on either end, I just started shuffling.
        I walked a long time. I don’t know how long, seeing as I had no real way to tell time, but it was long enough that I eventually warmed to the idea of my modesty being ultimately unimportant and so slung the curtain over a shoulder to move at a lope. I came lolloping out of the hall and into a new chamber a shorter eon later. 
        The new chamber affirmed my suspicion that I’d really just fallen into a funny little psychosis, because the chamber was littered with me. Just hundreds of metal corpses with my likeness.
        Now you’re probably wondering how it is that I knew they were dead, given that they, like me, are essentially just animate statues. I mean what constitutes death in a being with no organs and few physical tells about its life or its quality?
        It’s the same way you can go to an open casket and, upon looking at its inhabitant, know that they are definitively and irradicably dead. Through an ineffable caul organic beings tend to associate with room temperature bodies, paralyzed faces, and inoperable metabolisms. Looking on that whirl of bodies, I knew instantly that they were dead.
        And, in any case I-- we --weren’t always like this. But I digress.
We were all spooning each other, faces etched as often with serenity as regret or pain-- cutting a tin colored spiral in the hardwood floor. I noted absently that the spiral rendered equal distances between each pass, that it had wound out from the center, ran counterclockwise, and that there was still space in the chamber to fit more of me-- more and more of me as I looked.
I mention this because it was symbolically significant and twigged me to the notion that the whole thing was a dream.
I noticed then that the fellow at the end was still alive.
He flicked me a lascivious-- half ironic --smirk. “There’s always room, beautiful. Feel free to come back if you get tired of everything else.” Then he closed his eyes and went to an idle, serene, death.
I blinked, scratched my neck, said “Hard pass,” and turned around. But wouldn’t you know it, there was more dimensional horror waiting for me.
I found myself nose to nose with a mirror, which was startling enough for me to plant a fist through the glass.
And then it wasn’t glass, it was canvas, a still life painting of me cracking the mirror. But in the stillness of the painting, I saw movement. In the backdrop there was a mantlepiece mirror, and I was standing in it. My eyes locked with my reflection and the magic went into motion that very instant.
Vertigo ensued, and the spell dropped over me like a bucket of lukewarm static. I got sucked into my reflection, and found myself locked into an eternity of nausea, accidental self-recognition, vertigo, and transposition as the scenario iterated a thousand times.
While my body endured this relativistic hellscape, I worked hard to figure out what exactly was happening to me-- mostly in an effort to distract myself.
I was now more or less certain that most of this had been a dream. The whole stretch of me in the office to the room full of my-selves, right up to and including the painting. It really was all of a piece with my normal dreamscapes. This last part though was something else, it was extremely real and as I thought about it-- from a dry and rarefied part of my mind --I figured out exactly what it was.
I recalled a very particular lecture series in my post graduate education: Common Spaces and Aggregate Dimensions versus Private Spaces and Aural Bleed; Discourses on Dimensional Magic. It had been of no particular interest to me at the time nor did it develop any serious traction in my professional practice. Indeed the whole lecture might have vanished into the memetic whitenoise of daily chores and lackluster meals, but I had parted with a sizable sum of money to attend the lecture and I was still upset about it. 
The lecturer was an older human with alopecia. I had been very distracted the whole lecture because he didn’t take a single step, he just glided about from one end of his board to the other. I had assumed that he was just exercising some peculiar magical flair he had developed but realized by the end of the lecture that he had been wearing rollerskates and that my seating had made them impossible to see.
I really do go on and I apologize-- it’s a side effect of my advanced age.
“The majority of magicians in the business of teleportation, planar transitions, and abridgements utilize the Synergy between Jaedon The Glasswright and his teacher Morr, Founder of The Sky. This is natural since these are the two Founders responsible for: defining our fundamental metric of space, generating the topological solutions for the interactable space between The Three Worlds, and the enlinkment of The Three Worlds with The Eight. You will note, however, that these Magicians cannot bring you to a house or even a neighborhood. Indeed, many such Magicians can only bring you to Commercial or Civic Districts. This isn’t actually for any greater commercial scheme-- though these magicians typically hash out their own deals with local mercantile powers. No, the reason for this deficiency has everything to do with the fact that The Founders perceived a fundamental separation between places common and necessary to all peoples versus a place necessary to the individual. And so the purview for these so-called Private Spaces is given to the synergy of The Blistereye and Pliny, Jaedon’s Student...”
I’ll spare you and summarize this into something a little more concise and visual.
Imagine that all of space-- distance --is a color, that you can see that color suffusing everything. Let’s even say that this color is the exact same color as air pollution at dusk. For me, that specific image conjures a desire to be at home, to be indoors and out of the air. Which in turn suggests a sort of unspoken dichotomy between what is outside and much trafficked and what is inside and your own. The Founders, it turns out, had the same idea. So the ability to manipulate spaces that are attached to a person is fundamentally different from the ability to manipulate spaces that aren’t.
The very important piece of information to take from all of this is the fact that I could directly identify what powers could theoretically allow me to be taken from my own home. Those powers couldn’t seize on my physical form from within my house-- not without my consent --but they could seize on my consciousness.
In other words, I was still in my office at home, albeit very deeply asleep, my mind having wandered to wherever it was presently wandering.
I checked to see if I was still having a perspective artist’s wet dream.
I wasn’t.
At some point my awareness had come to rest in a madly appointed foyer. And I guess that somewhere along the way I grew clothes too. I flinched as I caught myself in the mirror but not because I was afraid of being carried off again, it was because my reflection was flesh and blood. I tested the elasticity of my face. That was definitely skin on my face. I checked myself. Yes, a flesh and blood person once again. I could even feel the moisture in my mouth.
I considered briefly that maybe I was embodying an idealized self image but the clothes were new, so that didn’t track. I looked my new threads over and immediately sneered. Somebody had dressed me like a stereotype.
They did me up with a knee length coat, coveralls, bandolier, belt, and harness-- all of it full to bursting with various arcane accoutrements. I was dressed as poster boy of magical preparedness.
So I immediately dressed down to coat and coveralls. Nothing I did needed materiel, or at least nothing I could practically do-- given the circumstances. All I kept was a pen and a sheaf of paper, which I stowed in a deep coat pocket.
Clothed to comfort I turned a closer eye on the foyer.
It was a brassy affair and not in the hardwood way-- although there was a lot of that. It looked more like an expressionist rendering of a foyer rather than an actual foyer. There were thrills of color that didn’t belong, highlights and shadows that didn’t make sense.
The floor for example, was varnished Alder but it had been threaded with gold such that the wood looked perpetually caught in the light. Chairs had indigo accents at their bends and silver tracery in their seats. There was a chandelier that cast no light, only hung ominously-- a creaking ambiguity made of crystal and white-metals that were hard to look at. The whole scene, it seemed, had been rendered from my perspective, which you hardly noticed when you stood where I stood. It was only mildly surreal and very appealing. But move a hair to the left or right and the effect was suddenly uncanny, making the entire place seem odder.
But I said it was madly appointed and I’m sure you’re wondering what I mean by that.
The entire foyer was made up of three landings, the ground floor, a second landing one flight up, and a third landing one and a half flights up. The second landing could be reached by a curving ramp on the right hand side, past a small study, while the the third landing could be reached by a steep set of stairs on the left side-- which also curved and made a switchback when it reached the second landing. You couldn’t reach one landing from the other and the only other way out of the foyer was a door immediately left of the stairs and that only stretched into a nondescript red corridor. The whole thing was shaped vaguely like a teardrop.
        Which, in and of itself, didn’t make it particularly mad-- just a little unorthodox. But it was the other things, the fact that the walls and floors weren’t made of common garden planks but chair backs, stained glass shards, and dovetails. 
        I explored and as I did I noticed the whole place was changing whenever I stopped to look. Not in any significant way but in minor ones, as if the room kept repainting itself to adjust to my perspective. I only slowly came to understand that the room was attempting to reconcile itself with perspective, creating algorithms with which to maintain its mise en scene while I migrated about.
It was slow about its work though and I decided to give it a hand.
I scribbled a simple revelation charm on a piece of paper and saw the Construct render itself into a syntax tracery. Looked like whoever had designed the Construct had accidentally made him a little bit stupid. “It’s fine buddy, you just need you a leg up.” I started walking in deliberate circles, marking little sigils every thirty degrees-- accelerating the rendering speed. It would’ve gotten there eventually but that sort of stuff is hard on a Construct and I felt bad for making it work overmuch.
When the render was finished I noticed that the whole room had maintained its impressionist quality but it had tamped down on the contrast and the light was more uniform-- the textures more regular.
I would’ve gone on stomping about the room but I quickly realized that, like a painting, the place was relatively bereft of stimulating things. There were books in the study, for example, but the titles were unintelligible and the pages were only vague striations in the side of white wood blanks. I left through the other door since at this point I knew the second and third landings didn’t go anywhere.
        Several minutes of red corridor later and, I came into the same room.
Or at least, it was arranged the same-- but it belonged to the realist’s world. The chandelier put off actual light and the colors were the common pigments of the everyday world. I checked the books and found they were made of paper but were blank. And then the whole business began to make some sense and I felt a runnel of fear inch down my neck.
        The room construct was taking down notation relative to my perceptions and logging information from my mind-- correcting inconsistencies as my eyes naturally or investigatively picked them out. The room was developing a perceptual profile for me and I shuddered to think about what it could want that for. If it finished a full battery of tests on me it would be capable of creating full sensory illusions from scratch and more than that, someone would have that information to themselves.
        Until that moment I had had nothing to fear, there was no magic in the world that could directly harm the mind without voluntary participation on the part of the victim. But The Room had been a lure, I had given assent-- as far as the Founders were concerned --by willfully assisting the construct.
        By choosing to participate in an illusion I had created the conditions for my potential demise. Which was, in retrospect, not nearly poetic enough for it to be okay.
        But I was getting ahead of myself, there was no guarantee that the Magician in question had any intention of hurting, killing, or enslaving me.
        It wasn’t as if they had abducted me.
        The fear came and went. I was in the trap already, there was no use in getting bent about it right here right now. And besides, it wasn’t as if I couldn’t defend myself if the worst came about. I was a High Magician of The Book, a Loremaster of critical acclaim. I was a Thesier and a scholar of the mind with an emphasis in the nature of images-- Ideographs, Iconography, Sacred Geometry, and Visual Memetics. This was my theater. This was where I could wage war and be at peace.
        And all of that sounds very well and good when you ignore the fact that I have been hiding from my life for thirteen migrations. That even chaste pleasures and passions have, in that time, been too much for me. That I have neither seen nor been kissed by the sky in all that time.
        My confidence soured and I suddenly realized why I had been put in a flesh and blood body. Nausea is a non-issue when you’re made of metal. Having had nothing in my belly in some time; I vomited clear bile, plastering it over a houseplant.
        That's the issue with resolve, with courage, with confidence gleaned from experience. When push comes to shove, you suffer just the same. Those words are just the common ideas we all like to focus on and cultivate when we’re in pain. It gives us something to do while our bodies take care of the rest.
        You would be well in the right to say that my digressions might have as much to do with my overabundance of hard earned wisdoms and adages as it does my nearly omnipresent fear.
        I walked through the red corridor.
#






The Eye
Boy, if I didn’t get smacked right out of the gate.
        I came out of the Red Corridor and into a stand of Alder Trees. It was dusk. It was balmy. I shared the stand with my only friends in the world. They were holding each other close, closer than they might’ve when I saw them last. I guess a baker's dozen is long enough for things to change a lot.
        Or it was a lie.
‘Course, who would I be to call my friend's happiness a deception. Who would I be to insist that the opportunity at a reunion was-- in fact --a veiled assault.
        Well I’d be me.
        I ran, fled the stand and broke into the plain at a dead sprint. A whimper at the heel of every breath.
        “Simon? SIMON!” They both called after me and I heard George start a stride. Which was no good, because George had clearly stayed active in the intervening migrations and he was much taller than me. But I wasn’t worried about him, I knew Dahlia was gonna reach me first.
        She stepped out of the tall grass as the wind blew through it-- a rush of irregular pattern that I might not have noticed if I hadn’t been looking. “Simon!” Her hands rushed into something meant to be pacifying.
        I pointedly refused to be pacified and juked her just as she lunged for me. I kept running, making for the greater forest.
        Evidently this body was in as good a shape as I had ever kept it, so George couldn’t clear my head start. I burst into the forest and lost him after a quarter mile of low branches and dense brush.
        And then I found myself in the real pickle. Which was the fact that I was suddenly in a forest of unknown size, near night, while being hotly pursued by a pair of people that know me very well.
Oh and I wasn’t coping with the anxiety-- not even slightly.
I vomited the second I stopped moving and I’m reasonably certain that the sound of my retching announced my presence to everything within a mile. I just hoped that the sound would bounce around like it would in a normal forest. It’s hard to know how things work in these sorts of simulacra-- not unless you had a hand in making it or you’re willing to do a whole lotta unorthodox research.
I stood there, bowed and shaking, until night well and truly fell. I never heard any telling rustles-- didn’t hear them call my name. Then I deliberated on whether or not I should go back to the clearing or go deeper into the forest-- but the answer was a foregone conclusion.
I went deeper into the woods, and it went badly for a long while.
I had never had any reason to be in a true forest in my life before. I’d never been to The Third World, there are no forests in The First World, and there was only the domestic shadow of them in the Second World.
Those suburban forests I’ve been to have clear paths, terraces, and brush so neatly governed that you could navigate an entire wood by sparse nightlight. The brush had been similarly kept at the treeline, but that was about where it had stopped being tame.
The wood was dense, living, and spiteful. The ground was fickle, unstable, and unleveled. The canopy kept out all the ambient light, so I had a really hard go of it and ended up with more than a few bruises. But, by some minor miracle-- one I didn’t work --I didn’t roll an ankle or otherwise lame myself.
And eventually the darkness broke, after yet another timeless aeon of walking through faceless terrain.
The path offered to me was dimly lit, as if by candles. The road was paved and I could feel its breeze whisper over my cheek-- one of those autumnal winds, just cool enough to make you think about being inside without making you want to be inside.
I’m entirely unashamed to say that I immediately took that road. Fully no hesitation, I was totally content to die of whatever nasty trap might be down that road. Not because I logically concluded that walking around a forest at night would inevitably get me killed anyways. But because it was the only thing in this whole debacle that had made me feel good.
What can I say? For the most part, I’m just a really stupid fish.
As I walked the road the surroundings got increasingly tame until I found myself in a suburb, and not a city suburb like you’d find in The First World but one you’d find in a large town-- the sort you see in The Second World.
They were squat things, but wide with deep basements. It was very hilly so most of the houses were isolated as much by incline as by conventional distances, which made things feel even more spread out. There were no fences and none of the houses made any bid for attention, each house too humble, each buzzing with their own night time ambiances.
It was nice.
And then it wasn’t.
Slowly-- over the course of minutes --the house lights started to wane, dimming in the face of some ephemeral wind. Wink, wink, wink, they all went out-- roughly tracing the passage of a wave. There was darkness and the wind picked up a bit.
And then there was a click and scrape, like a sole on the pavement. A light came back on, a low light at first-- a candle’s worth-- enough to describe a frosted window. And then the light multiplied: three frosted windows, a shapeless stained glass mosaic, a double door, two second story windows, on and on. In a little over a minute, a house slowly revealed itself to the darkness-- an architectural strip tease.
An aura of the same candle-colored light rushed out from the foundation of the house and I found myself standing no more than six long paces from the double doors, just a step off the road.
I noticed a young boy standing with me. He was moon faced, long haired, rosy cheeked, and he was staring woodenly at the front door.
I looked closer and, without thinking, ran a thumb over his cheek. It came away red, the boy was wearing rouge.
A pit had been growing in my belly for a while but this boy and this basic artifice made my dread more material. And then he spoke.
“Don’t worry, Simon.” His voice was flutey-- as young voices are wont to be --but where like voices might trigger in you a spectrum ranging from annoyance to nostalgia, this voice could only remind you of the fact that flutes are cold metal instruments. This voice spoke to no resident sympathies, it was only a resonant hollowness, a scarcity of warmth, a self-effacing artifice. “Did you hear me?” He stared into the open air beside him, eyes fixed on nothing at all. “I said not to worry.” And then he walked down the path, up to a deck, and waited.
I pattered after him. When I got to within a step, the door clicked open.
A horror walked out.
I think She had a handsome complexion. I think She was athletic. I think She had copper hair. I think she had been very beautiful.
What shambled out was not She, It was only a descendent-- an evolutionary resultant.
It was bone thin. It was hairless. It had no mouth. It had no skin. It bore no shame and no clothes. It bore only a hide thickly tattooed with a handwritten manifesto.
The only human remnant of She lived in Its eyes, by way of a frozen glint-- the echo of a once abundant warmth.
        She only stood there, beside the doorway, staring into the space near The Boy and I. She made no sound, made no motion, granted no seeming of recognition or cognition.
        The Boy broke the long moment. “Hello Mother,” was all he said as he walked through the door.
        I loitered on the deck and absently tried to read the scrawl on Its skin in an effort to distract myself.
        I had been prepared to employ my rusty philology but was surprised to find that the alphabet didn’t belong to a Familial Creole, a Professional Patois, or the Domestic Dialect. I thought for a minute that it was written in the Scribal Form but I quickly realized that its relation was cursory-- related only in terms of sentence structure. I looked closer, peering at the small-- intricate --scrawl. Then I flinched, shoving It away from me.
        It was Sigil Magic, very complex, and the problem with Sigils is that they are Engrammatically Reactive. They have to be read and they have to have some point of informational contact with the reader. Most Magicians that use a sigil system work magic that can only act on themselves but many such magicians are capable of creating a Translator. A Translator is a kind of servitor that dredges an observer’s mind for whatever symbolic framework the sigil needs to take effect-- if indeed those symbols exist in that mind. That can be innocuous and it can be actively hostile. The point being that you should never ever, under any circumstances, spend too long looking at Sigils you didn’t make.
        I should know, I practice the same Magic.
        As I recovered myself-- and maybe waited for something terrible to happen --I noticed It was staring at Its arm-- right where I had touched It. It was rocking too, more motion than it had betrayed since it shambled out.
I went ahead and swallowed my indecision and went inside.
        The house was dimly lit, in spite of the corona outside. It was quiet too, dead quiet with the exception of my own living noises.
        I heard the wood creak and tensed up, expecting another horror, but it was just The Boy, poking his head out from behind a corner, staring at the nothingness beside me. “Are you coming?” He asked. “Your food is gonna get cold.”
        “Right. Food.” I thought briefly about going back outside, but I both knew that: there was absolutely zero chance of the door still being there and that I didn't want to see what was inevitably going to come waltzing into scene in my moment of inattention. So I shuffled over to what was, evidently, the dining room.
        There were no new horrors, only Mother and The Boy sitting across from one another.
        “Come sit with me, Simon.” The Boy never turned to look at me, hardly moved at all. The Chair on his left pulled itself out in one smooth squeak. “Hurry, he won’t break it if you’re sitting in it.”
        I heard a muffled impact from under the floorboards and a long groan. I promptly sat down and scooted the chair in.
        Maybe you’re wondering why it is that I’m being so complicit in this whole sequence of events. I mean even accounting for fear I was being shockingly cooperative and uninquisitive. Why, afterall, wouldn’t I cast a spell and either be done with this or discover some damning truth about the simulation.
        The answer is, I am sorry to say, rather disappointing. See, I was interested to see what would happen next. I had tumbled through a course of my own fears, pains, and aversions and now I was being offered the surcease of witnessing someone else's problems. 
Let’s just say that whoever spun this up really had my ticket.
And also it’s not so simple as you might contrive. I mean whoever sold you the crock that you can have general dispellations is a hack. This isn’t some mock up of energy for me to disrupt, this is raw reality-- from the drama to the sensory experience, it’s all real and natural-- it just happens to be that the venue is only in my head. If I was going to even attempt to undo a spell, whatever it might be, I’d have to know all about where it came from and where its power is coming from-- and that’s all easier to know when you know who cast the spell in the first place.
Botching a disruption is a really really good way to get yourself killed.
The groan carried on, a sustained anguish that grew in volume and clarity as we sat in the awkward stillness of the dining room.
There was a thunder of footsteps somewhere behind me, someone flying down the stairs. A moment later an amputee walked into the dining room through another dark hallway. He was older than The Boy but when he spoke his voice seemed younger and maybe more vital. “Vince?” His head swung back and forth, his eyes still-- unresponsive.
“Here, Ardie.” The Boy said, nudging a chair with his foot.
“Oh, thanks.” The Amputee felt his way to his seat by virtue of his two stumps and used his foot to draw the chair out. I noted that it didn’t draw itself out for his convenience. He smiled at the empty air, under the assumption that he was offering someone some reassurance. But neither The Boy nor The Mother was looking at him.
The Amputee frowned suddenly. “Is someone else here?”
“This is my friend Simon. I met him at school today.”
“Hello Simon, my name is Ardie. I’m Vincent’s older brother.”
I opened my mouth to reply.
“Simon doesn’t speak, Ardie. He’s a mute.”
Ardie’s face fell. “Oh.” He dropped his head to stare at the table, his arms resting on the table.
I saw that his arms were scarred to the elbow, fire had left its impression on his skin. I briefly imagined him reaching his hands into a furnace-- saw them blacken, crack, and fall off. Ardie had handled some vast and burning something and it had left him scarred and separate from the world.
The groan clarified-- no longer muffled, as if its source stood at the bottom of a staircase --and I realized that it was a scream, the sort you hear when an adult mind breaks and it can no longer decide if it is making noise to drive things away or to get something out.
Four table settings clattered into being.
Nobody moved and the scream got nearer and nearer until I could hear the words. The words though, clearly were not coming from whomever was screaming. The words came on its heels, in a soft and clear voice.
God was a hysterectomy on a stormy atoll. I should know, I watched it happen.
God was the sea beaten oak at her back. I should know, I felt it happening.
God was the sea, swallowing me, becoming the dark, and drowning you. We should know, WE did it.
And on and on it whispered, a spidering static in the ears that made the skin crawl.
I saw light roll down the hall, like when the sky is rendered into morning. The light filled the hall and started to bleed into the dining room. And then he rounded the corner and filled the room with white light.
His head was a burning Sun.
I dropped my eyes to the table and started a furious prayer, hoping that the image just wouldn’t stick in my brain-- hoping that I had not contravened Sin simply by glimpsing the banned icon.
My mind was racing. ‘Who the fuck put this together? He’d have to be from Cayrel. A full graduate. More than that he’d have to have been a notable scholar. Another Thesier? We’re some of the only folks with access to the idea.’
        “What’s wrong with your friend, Vincent?” The Father said. I noticed the screaming had ceased.
        “Oh, he’s just mute.” Ardeo supplied.
        “Oh? Well maybe you oughta ask him for notes, Ardie. Maybe you’d learn to listen better.” A chair scraped and I heard The Father sit. “Now, what’s your friend’s problem, Vincent? He hasn’t even tried to wave.”
“He’s just shy is all.”
“Mmm... now that’s something I can understand. Everyday I go out and everyone stares at me, I feel downright naked. I used to be shy about it too, but pretty soon everyone started dragging me around to see my monty in the flesh. Then it got to be a little too hard to be shy all the time.” He chuckled wryly. “But, you’d know all about that, wouldn’t you Roe?”
I heard the chink of cracking porcelain and then there was silence.
The Father sipped on something. “So, what’d you do at school today?”
“Nothing. I just met Simon. They say he’s brilliant. But I can’t really tell, myself.”
“Mmm...good. It’s always good to have a peer. But remember, Vince, you're the center of the operation. It’s good to have a hanger on, but you should be getting orbited not the other way around. That’s just how it is and if you fail at that, then you create catastrophe.” I felt his gaze shift directly over to me-- something no one had done yet. “Not that I think it’ll be hard for you to outshine this one.”
        Nobody said anything and his eyes never left me.
        “You just gonna sit there? You just ain’t gonna look at me? You too afraid of dying to do anything about me?”
        I swallowed and tried to concentrate on the rhythm in the wood grain, on the curvature of my plate.
        “You think you can just ignore me and be saved? What about what happens when I--” He stood up.
“Dad.” Vincent hissed.
The Father chuckled. “What? I wasn’t gonna do anything.” He sat back down. “You sure picked a submissive one this time, Vince.”
I felt his attention migrate away.
“Can’t say that I disapprove entirely. I mean look at your mother here. Not a peep in ten migrations. Not since you stole all them words outta her head.” He snorted and looked back at me. “So what is he? Is he clever or somethin? Is that why you wanted him?”
“I don’t know. I just met him today.”
“Well you outta find out. I mean he can be mute but if he doesn’t have anything else to recommend him then you’ve just got some dead weight.” His eyes shifted off of me again. “Just look at your brother. I gave him all those chances and ignored my instinct. I mean I knew the second he came out that there was nothin to him. But I gave him everything I gave you. And then what’d he do? He started thinking he was real big and he came right for me.” His attention came back to me. “You gotta be ready for that dead weight, son. All it does is come back to haunt you. And what do we do when that happens, Ardie?”
I heard Ardeo start to stammer something.
“That’s right son. We cripple em, because they deserve it-- because its our job. Who else is gonna shed light on their inborn condition if not us?” He made a contented sound and shifted in his seat, relaxing. “Who better than us to make the worthy shine?” His eyes rolled back onto Vincent. “So what’s it that made you pick him?”
Vincent took a while to answer, mulling something over. “I think it was his mien.”
The Father laughed heartily. “Ah well, that’s as good a reason as any. It’s good he started out a mute, too.”
        “Why’s that?”
        He laughed harder. “Oh well he won’t have to adapt to having nothing to say, like your mom. It’s so hard for these folks to make themselves heard when they stand around people like us, son. It’s all that radiant glory, it gets in their head and heart-- blinds their mouths to their minds. Better he’s mute, maybe he won’t make himself a ruin like your mother did.”
        I started hearing the clink of silverware, as if everyone had suddenly decided to start eating in the face of the domestic tension.
        I took up my knife and fork too, eyes still fixed on my empty plate and the varnished red oak.
        I started scratching a Phrase into the middle of the plate.
        A Phrase is a sort of compound-complex sigil wherein one takes more basic sigils, arranges them to describe a more complex concept or intention, and then decomposes and recomposes them into a single sigil. You might wonder why this is a useful practice. Why not just keep all your basic sigils as is? Just group them. Why waste the time with consolidation.
Well in the first place, your inscription would just get very messy and extremely confused very quickly, and it’d be hard to write anything very complex. In the second place, you lose a lot of potency if you allow your focus to diffuse across all that ideological surface area. The process of consolidation allows you to create an increasingly complex manifold into which you can focus.
Theoretically you can continuously consolidate new phrases to generate symbols of increasing specificity or complexity-- the only limit being your capacity to think fluidly and retain a complete understanding of the symbol rendered. You can even form standard arrangements of Phrases, just the same as with basic sigils, should you overtax your symbolic vocabulary. These are the functions that make sigil magic so versatile, if unpopular.
        Advanced Sigil Magicians carry around a dictionary's worth of Phrases either to hand or by memory. Old ones retain several. Masters can just parse it out on the fly.
        I am the eminent authority on Sigil magic.
        Any of my chicken scratch pictographs would have the potence to counter and overpower any magic I had to be pitted against. The only issue had been that I didn’t know what to target.
Countermagic is complicated but it has three fundamentals. You can eliminate the driving will behind the spell, in which case you can: target the caster, or whatever might be maintaining the will and intent of the spell, or even the medium through which the spell is being relayed. In extreme cases, you can eliminate the part of you that is being targeted by the spell, that might be a little counterproductive but sometimes it's better than the alternative. And finally, in an unorthodox situation, you can directly manipulate the spell-- which is only possible if you are not only fluent in the Magic involved but also an active subject or target of the magic.
        The whole Sun father thing is what let me put it together, after I’d finished freaking out.
        The entire scenario was a variation on a heretical mystery play used to initiate--
Mmm, nevermind, I’ll explain that later. The point is that I recognized the play and I knew that there was an extremely limited number of people who knew about it. Which meant that it was one of maybe five other scholars in all the Three Worlds. There were other possible carriers of that knowledge but they weren’t human. It could have been one of those accidental retellings. The problem with most of these assumptions is that they wouldn’t help to target the countermagic.
Unless of course I assumed that the spell was being constructed by me-- without my permission.
Mystagogues and lazy professors across the three worlds had-- since the advent of Lores --created a surfeit of meta-mental magic with the express effect of evoking an awakening in the initiate or student. The most common venue for these awakenings is The Mystery Play.
The primary advantage of experiencing a Mystery Play is that the lesson being taught is being taught to you in your own words, using your methods, current understanding, and relevant memories. The secondary advantage, the advantage for the teacher, is that they don’t have to waste time developing all that deep tissue understanding for their student; they can just take the seed, plant it, and then the spell sows and grows that idea using the machinery already in the student’s head.
The idea, as I understand it, was developed by a gang of veteran mystics who had received their magical education from spirits.
Spirits, as you might already know, like to communicate very complicated ideas in extremely concise terms-- mostly because they have a lot to say. And rather than waste time forcing you to learn complicated jargon, Spirits jump right into your brain and splice neurons until you have experienced: a subjective lifetime, an intensely realistic hallucination, and a deep reservoir of experiences to reinforce your understanding of whatever concept they have attempted to communicate. It all happens roughly in the course of an hour.
The mystics developed a formalized methodology, dialed things all the way back, and eventually made a general formula. It is an extremely effective method of education.
While these spells can be cast on, ostensibly, anyone; these spells are wildly amplified when you cast them on a Magician. If only because we have all these funny little pathways in our brains containing extremely powerful symbols, emotions, and/or mnemonics.
In my case it would have been worse, since my scholarly and magical emphasis is in, well, this. I don’t know exactly how it would’ve been worse but I think it's probably just a good thing that I’m not only a scholar-- because that meant I could leave at will.
These spells aren’t built to contest or foil attempts to exit them.
The Phrase I inscribed was simple and might be translated as:
I’m Busy Practicing Ignorance, Thank You.
It’s best not to be very rude on the way out, spells can sometimes get abrasive right back at you.
#
        I opened my eyes to the faint, dark, outline of my office, my head firmly settled in a worn groove in the oak of my desk.
        I was back to normal, I could tell by the absence of moisture in my mouth and the pervasive slick numbness over my everywhere. I was naked again too and when I stood up, I saw that Cynthia was curled up at the far end of my desk.
        I shifted the aperture of my pupil and the room resolved into grayscale visibility.
        I nimbly rumbled my way over to my office door, opened it, and walked into the rest of my house for the first time in a migration.
#
Many Roads and Hours away from Simon’s house, George and Dahlia wake from their own personal nightmares, using their own means and devices. Their experiences are all similar but different. They have come to their own individual understandings of what happened; some of it is false, some of it is true, some of it is common to all them, none of them-- separately or in aggregate --possess the whole truth.
        They haven’t shared words in thirteen migrations, but with one dream I have fostered in them-- not only the desire --but the will to kill their Adolescent Silence.
        They will save me or they will die and I will say all of this, all over again.
#












































The Hand
So, I said I’d explain that heretical mystery play.
Well, let's start with some basic personal history.
        I am an Amalgam, which is what inevitably happens to those of us with a mortal and immortal parent.
The principle is pretty simple. The Mortal is a shifting and finite thing, it’s beautiful and wonderful, but it dies. The Immortal doesn’t do any of those things-- it just stays the same. When your essence is split between those two polarities, the mortal parts of you do what they’re meant to do and the immortal in you starts claiming all that lost ground.
But all those mortal bits stick around long enough to make like fossils. The sensation and the vitality might ebb out of you as you approach the end of your first century, yet the memory and record of all that you were sticks around and shapes what’s left. It makes you an amalgamation, metamorphic rock, amber, etc. You become a small, static, record of what has come and gone.
At this point I’m immortal in the sense that I won’t die of organ failure and I can only really be disassembled to dysfunction. But, I’m not all that old for an Amalgam, even at a ripe old ninety seven migrations-- I’ve seen four Seasons go by since I started, ended, and carried on. Which means that there’s a lot of story to me, and therefore, a lot for me to talk about. Please appreciate the fact that while I wax on, I’m trying very hard to communicate only what I need to.
So this particular story begins with a version of me that has yet to see his forty seventh migration. He’s very different from me as I am now. He’s a minor hero, a critically acclaimed scholar and a veteran traveller of The Eight Worlds Beside. He can go outside and he even has friends.
The important thing is that I was on retainer to the Eight Idols of Eydre.
That’s a very prestigious position but it’d take me a while to explain exactly how. So as far you are concerned, that just meant that I was being subcontracted by a pack of notable...bounty hunters.
My role was investigative in capacity. We needed to find out who had attempted the ritual, if they were alive, what the ritual’s intention was, and if the ritual was successful or not.
I was working with a colleague, a fellow Thesier with a practical emphasis in Spectralism-- a specialized school of Magic born out of an overlap between the deceased and Postcognitive divination magic, which allows for the analysis of the past through the lens of the deceased. Most Spectralists belong to a guild of magicians called The Lighters, their milieu ranges from Anthropology and Genealogy all the way to a photo service that lets you take or restore as many pictures of your dead loved ones as you need or want.
Syndil wasn’t a Lighter. He was extremely sober, very focused, and maybe a little bit snobbish. Indeed, the man was so stiff on the inside it went ahead and crept into his whole mien. It was often said that he’d gone so rigid that he physically could not bend a finger to help anyone but himself.
Needless to say, we didn’t get on very well, but we had some professional respect for each other and that went a ways to making our working relationship fairly decent.
The crime scene was in the high ceilinged basement of a rundown tavern. It was well lit, floored with cement, and consisted of two rooms: a small store room and a vast studio space.
On the second day of the investigation, I came in and found Syndil hard at work. I didn’t know what kind of work though. He had spread these cameos about the crime scene and was migrating back and forth between them all: performing vague charms, making notations, and sometimes replacing one cameo for another-- one he’d pull from a set of wicker drawers he was lugging about.
He noticed me come in. “Oh good, I’m just about done with the calculation.”
“Calculation?”
He snapped briefly out of his flow, “What?” Then he recovered himself. “Right, I guess it’s not a staple of most other types of magic.” He turned around and gestured at the entire tableau. “This is a Shadow Register. We can use them to put together a reverse image of a subject’s essence by consulting these cameos.”
“I take it they’re not normal cameos.”
“No, they’re not.” He started back at his work. “They’re very specially made genealogical constructs on loan from The Lighters. If you know the right spells you can use them to consult the dead for any memories they might have of having interacted with a given essence.” He adjusted a cameo slightly and gazed into it for a fat minute. “If you put in some elbow grease,” he continued, “you can also use them to tell if a given essence is related to a given family and to what degree. If you do it all very well and you get a little lucky, you can get a rough age and you can even develop an essence shadow.”
An essence shadow is sort of like the silhouette of your soul- the outward sign of your entire being. They’re the most common target for spells cast over a distance and also the part of you that leaves the impression of magic on the world.
“The only trouble is that it is very slow going if you don’t have an automatic setup.”
“What material are you working off of?”
“Oh, I lifted some skin flakes, hair, thumbprints, and even some blood from the implements last night. I was able to sort them into different people, for the most part. I know we have five participants but it’s all gonna be a hazy read-- only good to see a reenactment of the rite.”
“Couldn’t we perform an Essence Sounding? Find out if they’re alive or not, and compel their names from them?”
“Yes but only if we had a more specific model. As is, the Sounding would go out to the next best thing to a thousand people. By doing resonance comparisons and then mock reenacting the ritual we’ll be able to generate and verify an accurate model.”
“Were you planning on doing all those comparisons by hand?”
“Yes.”
I made a displeased noise in my throat. “How many points are you missing?”
He glanced down at his chart. His eyebrows climbed into his glistening pate. “Well maybe we won’t do that.”
        “We could solve for the aggregate form first. That’ll eliminate a few data points and give us an established range of values for the remaining ones.”
        An aggregate form is a method Thesiers use to establish the basic “shape” of a spell. Think of it like a melody and time signature, if I know that I know the proportion I should maintain
        He frowned a minute and then nodded. “That should work. But we’d still have too many arrangements to test.”
        “Well how many is too many?”
He poked his temple with his pencil and thought. “Uh... Twenty six factorial.”
“Oh, I can handle that.”
        Syndil helped me establish the testing range for each essence, gave me the basics on the operation of his cameos, and then promptly went to sleep, apparently he’d been up for close to twenty hours. Which, I thought, was needless, if he’d have just told me about what he had in mind I could’ve expedited the entire process. But there you are, the dilemma of magicians everywhere-- a need to prove that they can do everything on their own while knowing full well that we do it best with some help.
        I got down on my hands and knees and chalked the floor for sixteen hours.
        I really hope that you weren’t under the impression that my style of magic was even remotely dramatic, because it’s not. I didn’t get into sigil magic so that I could blast things apart or lay curses on my enemies-- because I have nothing to blast and no enemies to curse. I got into sigil magic so that I could do a lot of computation in a very short amount of time and for as often as I like.
        Your tool should always suit your profession and mine is a dull one.
        Syndil got up and came into the hall towards the end of the inscription. He didn’t say anything at first, just sat there and watched. About an hour of that was all he could stand though, and he started asking questions. “So what exactly are you doing?”
        I didn’t stop scribbling. “It’s a pretty simple mechanism, all things told-- it’s just really big. There’s three parts. The first part is the interface, that’s those five blank circles. When the spell is done, the formula for their essence shadow will print there. The third part is the meat and potatoes: that’s the stuff running numbers, doing the tests, retaining constants, and reconciling the models with each other. This middle bit is just a translator, converts the raw data into a readable format.”
        He frowned. “And what’s doing all that thinking?”
        “Mmm, technically me. See if we assume that our ability to resolve the problem is limited by the fact that we can only think so fast and in only so many directions then it stands to reason that multiplying those factors would speed things up. Which is true, but you’d need a massive coefficient to ramp up to the sort of speed you need to run through a permutation this big. And in any case it’s hard to develop sigils for individual numbers, there’s just not enough metaphorical surface area and not enough utility. It is, however, very easy to develop a sigil for concepts, for example: Fold or Laminate.” I gestured at the phrase I was working on.
“Doing that lets me increase the coefficient exponentially. But now I have to develop a means of telling it how many times it should fold. Well I don’t have any elegant recourse for that, so I’m just incorporating the sigil sixty four times into the design.” I took a minute to sit back and shift onto my side. “Now I have a mechanism that can essentially construct a very involved manifold out of my consciousness. Then, I just write in an overseer to direct the mental labour and describe the problem, a record keeper to track failed attempts, and a clock to keep everything cycling.”
        He looked mildly horrified. “Hold on, it’s your consciousness? Not a constructed one, your consciousness?”
        “That’s right.”
        “Just a billion billion of you dedicated to performing the single most boring computation? For whatever amount of subjective time? For their entire life?”
        “Well I hadn’t thought about it like that before, but yes, I guess so. I could use a construct but then I’d have to develop the logic and knowledge and everything and that’d take months-- migrations if I wanted it to do more than just this. This way is the fastest. But now that you mention it,” I scratched my head, “I’ll probably go ahead and make a dedicated construct for work like this, later”
        He shook his head. “And how much energy is it going to need?”
        I snorted. “Very little. All the pain is in the intricacy. I’ll probably sweat a bit, but it’s far from hard labor.”
        “And what, any sigil mage can do it?”
        “With time and surface area, yes. Now not anyone could do it all this quick or this small but yeah.”
        “Hm. I should probably take a look into it.”
        “You should! It’s been really useful in my career as a Thesier. I actually have a friend trying to make a line of domestically accessible--”
        We talked shop while I finished the spell. I cast it and more or less immediately went comatose. Apparently, I was very tired. Syndil ended up letting me sleep where I lay and a few hours later I got up with a truly unspeakable crick in my neck.
        “You got lucky and ended up resolving the whole thing in three hours.” He informed me. “You’re just in time for the ritual reenactment.”
        Syndil and I didn’t have anything to do with casting the actual spell for the reenactment. We only needed to supply a group of Guild magicians-- deputies for The Idols --with a general formula and specifications.
        It culminated in a mildly boring affair. See we weren’t actually performing the ritual in its entirety so much as we were looking at a shadow of what had happened. Our five participants were vaguely discernible human shaped mirages and the various ritual accoutrement were dense, formless, shadows. That can sometimes be entertaining but really all the participants did was stand around, shifting into postures, performing sacrifices, and all around engaging in extremely blase ritual work.
        It only got interesting at the end.
        There was a flash in the center of the ritual configuration and born into being was a pulse of incandescent light-- the rays of which seemed to dispel our mirage participants and eradicate the entire reconstruction in the moment it came to be.
        We did the sounding. None of our suspects were alive anymore.
        We researched the ritual and after about a week of combing various libraries, we found an excerpt not entirely consistent with what we had seen but relevant in that it generated a seemingly identical effect.
        The ritual we found required four participants, and lasted an entire migration.
        You can guess at the nature of the ritual performance.
        Well we came to the Idols with our findings and they more or less immediately put us under their parole. After taking several oaths from us, they granted us some prohibited and restricted access to the knowledge of a particular symbol long since outlawed: The Sun.
        I don’t know what Syndil ended up doing after that but I spent the next five migrations assisting The Idols with the dismantlement of several Cults of The Sun throughout the first and second worlds.
        They’re sick people on the whole, Sun Cultists-- frequently playing host to the Wrathless. Their rituals almost always require some near contravention of Sin, typically through: the infliction of severe psychological traumas, the mutilation of near sentient animals, compelled self mutilation, driven suicides, the corruption of immortal spirits, and anything else that might make anyone blanch.
        I will tell you why these things work when it becomes important for you to know but right now all that it is important to know is that someone was contacting me using my awareness of Sun Cults-- attempting to communicate to me some theme or message that might only be communicated by the symbol of The Sun and all the associations I had made thereby.
        Someone wanted me to be aware of a danger, something forbidden, something wrong, something naturally malicious to the order of things.
        And I needed to know why.
        So I dropped a line to two people I thought I wouldn’t speak to again. 
        I’d just handed Cynthia the letter when there was a knock at my door.
#
They’re odd balls, the both of them, even compared to me.
        Dahlia is always wrapped up, head to toe, her entire body wound up in oil soaked, ink blotted, bandages. The only thing free is her hair, a fall of dark water rolling down to the middle of her back. On top of the bandages she wears a long dark veil, practically cut robes, gloves, tall boots, and a short cloak. She only thinks it’s all necessary.
        George was born old and wizened. He’s got a marbling of scars all over his everywhere. His smile has cut deep furrows into his face as well as his bearing-- leaving him the immortal semblance of a good mood. He always wears a workman’s belt and harness, lugs around a heavy bag, and limps everywhere he goes.
        I can assure you, that of the three of us, I am the sane one.
        They were staring at me with blank expressions. Well, Dahlia’s expression is always enigmatic but you get the sense for it after a while of knowing her.
        George broke the silence first. “You’re naked, Simon.”
        I looked down. “I don’t think I can really be naked anymore but yes, sorry.” I gathered the kaftan closer and cinched it tight. “It’s really easy to forget about clothes when your whole sense of touch is almost totally absent.” I tried on a smile.
        They just kept staring.
        “Right well, let’s uh--”
        Dahlia cleared her throat. “I’m sorry Simon, it’s just damned odd is all. I mean you don’t even have hair anymore.”
        I snorted. “What? That’s the big adjustment for you, Dahl? My sudden baldness?”
        “Well yeah. You were always cool, glossy, and celibate, so the rest of it’s not much of a change. But now your poor beautiful hair’s gone and I can’t look at you the same.”
        “Too right, Dahl. I mean my eyes keep drifting up to look for it and I’m disappointed every time. It feels mildly perverse.”
        I smiled. “Funny enough the hair was a voluntary thing, I just got tired of having to deal with all the split ends-- no more natural oil and all that.”
        “Mm, bad call. Can we come in?”
        I stepped out of the doorway and ushered them inside. “I’d feed you, but the fact is that any food I might have is food you definitely do not want to eat.”
        “Founders, that must be awful. I can’t imagine not eating, or cooking for that matter.” George said, looking my foyer over, checking for damages-- he’s the one that built it in the first place.
        “Took me two migrations to get over it. Most of that was just learning how to stop feeling like I’m starving all the time.”
        “And how do you do that?” He asked.
        “By working all the time.”
        “Oh!” He squealed, the sound entirely foreign to his appearance but certainly not to his personage. “You know, I could get behind that.”
        “I thought so too, but eventually I got tired of it. Now I mostly just sleep or pretend to get drunk or experiment with dreamscape magic.”
        He laughed, awkwardly, and attempted to change the subject. “Do you do the cleaning yourself or--”
        Cynthia inserted themself into the conversation. “Hah! Not likely. It’s all me. I drive a damn mule team of house daimons just to keep all the dust and vermin at bay. The whole absence of a mortal essence seems to have given them the impression that they can reclaim the place.”
        George peered down at the little marble harpy. “Oh my, I didn’t see you there. Who might you be?”
        “Cynthia, the master’s finest creation.”
        George quirked an eyebrow and opened his mouth to speak.
        “Do not think to imply that I am not. I work too hard for you to say otherwise.”
        George glanced at me. “Did you really make this one?”
        I nodded, proud. “Yes. They really are my most advanced piece of magic yet. I finished making them in the fifth migration since my whole-- being here gig. I really desperately needed a babysitter.”
        “That seems about right.” George got down on a knee and offered a finger to the harpy. “My name is George, I am very pleased to make your acquaintance.”
        Cynthia took his finger, marble talons cutting into the thick calluses of his hand, and shook. “I have read of you, from the master’s journals.”
        “My journals? What in the Eight Worlds Beside were you doing reading my damn journals?”
        “I was looking for something fun to do, and drama to stir up.”
        I made a displeased noise and waved my hand. “Go find something cruel and unusual to do to the house already, before you piss me off.”
        Cynthia snapped herself into a ball and tumbled down the hall.
        “Sure is a charming Entity you made for yourself.” Dahlia piped up.
        “I certainly think so.” George said.
        I nodded, willing to let the conversation die off right about there. We lingered in the silence for a while. George started to rock back and forth and Dahlia pretended to be interested in the shape of my bannister.
        “So...”
        They both nodded.
        Founders above, you really do forget that you’re not missing much when you axe your friends out of your life. “I’m guessing we all had a very spooky dream and that’s why you both came here?”
        “Well I mean, spooky might not be the right word. More...” George frowned, “strange.”
        “Terrifying might suit it all much better, as far as I’m concerned.” Dahlia snapped.
        “If I’m being very honest I’d say that the whole thing rated as...highly startling.” I nodded. “I wouldn’t say I was sweating for it but I definitely wasn’t expecting most of it.” I glanced at both of them. “It sounds like you had different experiences. Do you want to talk about it?” Then I thought about it and corrected course, “or have you already talked about it?” It’d be best if I didn’t end up divulging all the nitty gritty details about my knowledge about The Cult of The Sun.
        “We talked about it on the way over and--” George started
        “We think it’s a message.” Dahlia finished. 
        “I thought so too. A warning.” I said.
        “Well I thought it felt more like a call for help.” George’s face had gone somewhat sober.
        Dahlia squinted at George. “A call for help? Are you insane? Whatever it was, it tried to murder me.”
        I frowned at her. “Murder you? I got engaged in some uncomfortable dinner conversation. What in the Eight did you do? What happened?”
        “I--” She stopped suddenly. “I don’t want to say.”
        Apparently, I wasn’t the only one that wanted to keep things secret.
        Taking the lull as an invitation, George started to monologue.
As he told it, George hadn’t been trapped by any spell, he’d just had a normal dream sending. It hadn’t been particularly long, disorienting, or cerebral and had more or less amounted to a single scene.
        “I was walking home, or at least I was walking the streets, and then I rounded a corner. There was a boy on the ground, pale and wheezing. He was bleeding everywhere. I dropped down to help him but as I moved down, he started to grow-- or I started to shrink. When I finally touched my knee to the ground, he was as big as a hill. He turned an eye on me and he said, ‘Look in the Mirror, George.’”
        “I caught my reflection in a pool of blood only I didn’t see the boy anymore. In the blood I saw a manse, all done up in rococo. I looked up and I saw it in the night light, a marble mansion covered in bas reliefs and stained glass. It was his face, everywhere. I heard him speak in my ear. ‘Come over sometime, I’ve made you a home-- just like you taught me.’”
        I squinted at him. “I’m sorry, that’s what a call for help sounds like to you?”
        “Well I mean he didn’t seem to be having a grand time.”
        I shook my head. “And you, Dahlia? Did you feel trapped?”
        She scoffed. “Yes! Founders abound, I nearly had an episode trying to throw the spell off.” She tugged at the sleeve of her robe.
        “And did you see a boy too?”
        She nodded. “Pale, short, moon faced, and thin.”
        “He didn’t give you a name?”
        She shook her head.
        I frowned and chewed on the problem. “Was he the one attacking you?”
        “No.” She said it in a clipped tone.
        “Alright then. We have one victim, slightly used, and some faceless malice. And whoever is sending the messages, they’re using different methods to do it. Why?”
        “I was thinking about that and the only thing I can think of is that we’re all different types of Magicians. George is of The Path, I’m of The Blood, and you’re a Loremaster. George can’t shield himself from a sending, I have natural defenses against mental intrusion, and you-- what exactly happened to you?”
        “Deeply involved mystery play, I had to counter it to get out.”
        “Ah well everyone knows that the best way to get a Loremaster to play ball is to give him a riddle to solve. He just needed to go long enough that you got whatever message he was trying to give you.”
        I nodded. “So you’re saying he has some essential knowledge about all of us.”
        “I suppose that is what I’m saying. He only used necessary power on us, didn’t overdo it, and knew where and how we’d get out of it.”
        “And I’m guessing neither of you know a Vincent.”
        They both shook their heads.
        George thought a moment. “Actually, that’s not true, it’s just that I doubt that the one I know is even remotely mixed up in all this.”
        “What makes you say that?”
        “Well, the Vincent I know is a hooker on the corner of Ash and Lime.”
        Dahlia looked at him. “Why exactly do you know a hooker on Ash and Lime?”
        “Actually, I know plenty of hookers. I run them lunch when I go to work. It’s just that they look so thin and I feel bad.”
        I felt Dahlia roll her eyes.
        “Okay then, back to the whole psychic threat topic.” My mind snagged on a nagging little detail. “Did either of you get a sense for the sort of magic he used?”
        Dahlia wobbled her head side to side. “It felt like another Heir’s spell, if I’m being honest; but, I can’t really think of a House that could’ve done that.”
        George scratched the back of his neck. “I can’t say it felt like anything I usually work. All I can say is that it definitely didn’t feel like anything you two would do.”
        I frowned. “How so?” Loremasters are all generally tone deaf to any sort of intuitive sense for magic.
        “Well the aura you guys throw when you make with the magic, it’s never what I’d call natural. You more than Dahlia, Simon. This felt normal, like it should be happening.”
        I blinked at my floorboards and then shook my head. “Yeah that’s really not connecting any dots for me.”
        Dahlia settled her palms onto the back of her hips and twisted a little. “Do you guys think we could maybe take this discussion out of the foyer? I need a chair to sit in.”
        We adjoined to my library, and upon seeing two guests two of my daimons immediately animated a pair of armchairs and swept Dahl and George right off their feet. The invisible servitors, over eager, immediately began to ply them with empty saucers and tins full of incredibly stale cookies. I ended up having to fight them off and then-- because I felt bad --I had them put in an order for groceries. 
        I had come to the library operating on the pretense that I’d be able to find a book relating to my present circumstances. I immediately discovered that that would be impossible. It just so happened that in the course of my exile I had both: insisted the daimons never tidy the room and made the entire institution of shelves obsolete. Books were scattered everywhere, some stacked in leaning towers, some on desks, most of them on the floor in haphazard semi circles.
        “Well I think I’d have heard something about this already, what with seventy odd migrations of scholarship.” It was a lie, of course. You could be a dedicated scholar for twice as long as I’ve been alive and still not possess one iota of a fraction of all the magical knowledge present in the Three Worlds. “I mean even if we assume it was three different people casting different spells, we still have the outlier case with George.”
        They didn’t say anything.
        I turned around and found them looking at each other in some vague and undefined way. “What is it?”
        The turned their eyes back to me. “It’s nothing.” Dahlia said.
George patted an armchair. “Why don’t you sit with us, Simon? It’s been a while and we haven’t caught up yet.”
        I felt my eyes widen. “Oh. Uhm, right. I will. Just give me a minute, I have to find some...” I scratched my head and looked around, “chairs.” Then I left before they could say anything.
        I found myself in a far removed store room, faintly anxious and extremely mentally absent. I figured they’d take the whole occasion as an excuse to take things back to business as usual. I just thought that maybe I wouldn’t have been so accommodating in the first place. I mean it wasn’t exactly their fault for assuming that that was something I wanted. I had definitely seemed amenable to the idea, if only by implication.
        I just didn’t understand how it was that they could correlate the whole affair to my wanting them back in my life. There was too much different about me, too much separating me from them. It couldn’t go back to being the same. This wasn’t magic, it wasn’t natural, and there wasn’t anything wrong.
        They couldn’t fix it all with a touch.
        I felt faintly annoyed with the whole situation. Surely they’d know by now that if the whole problem with the three of us could’ve been fixed by their timely interventions, I wouldn’t be where I am right now. Why would they take this moment to try and reach out and fix me.
        Didn’t they understand that there was nothing to fix? I’m just an inbetweener, not something busted. Parts of me died and I kept going and all that means is I work differently. I’m not scarred. I’m not a freak.
        I didn’t have a heart to speak of but I could feel the anger in my stance.
        This had been why I’d avoided them all this time. I couldn’t stand all the anger, all the sudden volatility they always seemed to catalyze in me. I couldn’t stand being angry at either of them.
        “This really isn’t solving the problem. Why don’t we just focus on putting one foot in front of the other and ignore everything else? Solve this little issue and find another one until it’s all over and then you can go back to sleeping under the desk. If you ignore their whole deal, it just won’t come into play.”
        I ever mention that I’m a real social genius?
        I left the store room, found a high backed chair, and plopped in front of a window in the library. I didn’t look at either of them when I came back, I just stared out onto the street. It’d been a long time since I’d taken the time to watch the city or stare at the people.
        I realized that I no longer had much of a taste for the urbane glamour of your standard citizen. I think after many migrations spent dealing with other Magicians and non-humans you get into this thing where your tastes start irrevocably trending towards the bohemian.
It might also be the reductionist mindset you get from being a Thesier. Every ensemble becomes a datapoint in a column of trends, every trend forms into some sort of aggregate sign, and suddenly you’re not looking at people you’re just looking at a stochastic you want to analyse to pass the time.
        I looked away and tried to make myself slow down.
        “Simon?” Dahlia ventured.
        I looked over at the pair of them. “Yes?”
        “You know we can go, right? We can always come back.”
        I blinked and wiggled my jaw. “Yeah I think maybe you caught me at a bad time. If you leave your addresses with Cynthia, I’ll get back to you when I have something.” Then I turned back around in my seat and stared at the plaster of the windowsill until they left and then for a while after.
        The sky had gone dimpsy when I finally looked away, my eyes drawn by the sound of shuffling coals. There was a hacking cough, and then all at once a fire was born into the library’s hearth. My eyebrows lifted in faint surprise. I had forgotten all about the hearth daimon. I got out of my chair and plopped down in front of him. “Hey, long time no see.”
         There was another hacking, coughing, whooping exhalation. “Ack! Hey boss, how’s it been? Actually, better question, how long has it been?”
        “I think its been about seven migrations now. I just don’t really need heat anymore, you know?”
        “I can definitely understand that. I mean as a being constructed to provide heat, I understand that people generally need heat but I myself have no means of understanding why. If you ask me it seems like another chore, the whole avoidance of cold. So I can understand how you, a being that feels neither, would forget to turn me on. That being understood, I would really appreciate it if you could-- maybe --just have my awakening added to the nightly roster. The overseer only added me on because someone said we had flesh and blood company.”
        I smiled. I’d put an entirely needless amount of work into developing his personality and cognition, I still don’t know exactly why. For a while I’d been afraid that such a complex construct would eventually short out or get depressed from the extremely simplistic nature of his directive. But he’d really taken to the thing. I wondered briefly why I’d stopped turning him on. He’s much better company than Cynthia.
“We were,” I told him. “But, plans changed.” The hearth seemed to dim slightly. “Still, I think we’ll have them back pretty soon. Day after tomorrow maybe.”
        “Ah that’d be nice. If you don’t mind me saying so, a fresh face or two would really do wonders for my mood.”
        “Your mood? Are you not happy?”
        “Well I wouldn’t say that I’m unhappy; just that, you know, I think it’d be nice if more things happened around here. As is, I got put to sleep for seven migrations and nothing much came up about it-- that just feels a little wrong to me.”
        “Don’t you think you’d get just a little bit tired of everything, after a while?”
        “As an artificial construct whose sole purpose is to moderate the hearth, I desperately need an audience. Believe me when I say that I could never get tired of a face, voice, or story.”
        “You know I could probably extend your protocols, attach you to something a little more autonomous and interesting.”
        “No, no, I really do like my job. I have a nice deal where all I need to worry about is doing one job and it just so happens that doing my job means there are happier people. I think the solution to my woes is really just an occasional visitor, or even a regular chat.”
        “I can definitely promise to talk to you, if that’s what you’d like. And while I can understand the appeal of having someone that can practically appreciate your work, I just don’t see myself having frequent visitors.”
        The fire flickered for a while, thinking. “Do you know why you became a shut-in?”
        “Yes.”
        “Can you tell me?”
        I dithered a moment and then shrugged. “I figured that I’d become too strange to interact with or relate to others. I mean I’m too old for most mortals, but I’ve got a young mind-- means everything out of my mouth seems to devolve into something long winded and boring. I don’t have any of those shared experiences anymore, no biological maintenance or infirmity. And to top it all off, I’ve been a scholar my whole life, meaning I was already experiencing so much of my mortal experience through the lens of my intellect; and let me tell you, that’s not a good thing for most conversations.”
        “I see.” The fire dimmed some. “So you think that maybe you’re not suited for the whole mortal interaction scene because of some deficiency in the interface between you and others?”
        “That seems about right.”
        “Tell me, are you warmer now?”
        I frowned. “I don’t really feel the temperature.”
        “Oh. I just noticed that you’re not sitting so stiff now, that you look a little gladder to be nearer to the fire.”
        “You’re comforting.”
        “Yes, exactly. My job is only superficially related to the fire. My job is to provide comfort. You can’t experience the medium of my work but you can certainly experience the result. Do you know why that is?”
        “Well you changed things up for me. You got me involved in this whole conversation.”
        “That’s not different, that’s not change because we’ve already established that the medium isn’t what matters-- that’s something transitory.  Things are only ever what they are. I am a hospitality daimon, I provide comfort regardless of the form or the venue. You haven’t changed, you’re really just a man that craves all the necessary things he used to crave. You’ve just refused to acknowledge that maybe things are always the same-- even in the face of great powers and mandates.”
        I opened my mouth to speak. He cut me off.
“You’ve been deluding yourself into the belief that you cannot receive any of the things you crave and so have chosen to become numb to them. Why is that?”
        I rolled my eyes. I was starting to see why I’d shut him off in the first place. “I think your argument is specious. This happened, there’s no going back.”
        “Only if you--”
        “Be quiet if you know what’s good for you.” I snapped.
        The flame got brighter and there was a sudden rush of sparks from out of the mouth of the hearth.
        I flinched.
        “Tell me, if you can’t feel it and it can’t hurt you, why would you flinch? Or are you gonna sell me another line about some ‘memetic interaction’ driving you to follow instinct? It all sounds extremely glandular to me.”
        I spat something rude and stomped out of the library, into my office. “Fucking Constructs. Every damn one becomes a microcosm of you and whatever ideology you happened to be touting when you made them-- like some cognito-congenital STD.”
#
The Key
At some point that night, I had decided to start puzzling over the letter.
 I was still puzzling at it-- somewhat indecently --many hours later.
        Whoever had written it, they sounded miserable. That was very plain.
        And that was about as far as I’d gotten.
        That wasn’t to say I hadn’t been doing anything, quite the contrary. In the period of time between me starting work and noon the next day, I had: checked it for ciphers; checked for subliminal messages; checked for illusions; had all forty five copies copied, put all those copies through a scanner construct, and checked for aggregated images, schematics, or any other variety of concealed visual data.
        Nothing. Nothing more than: Gee, whoever wrote this was very sad, in pain, and nearly insane.
        I put the letters in a drawer and started bouncing my knee. But, discovered I could  do that for about a minute. So I got up and went over to a closed chute in the corner of my office.
        I knocked.
        “What?” It mumbled.
        “Could you spit out a copy of today's paper?”
        “Which distributor?”
        “The unofficial one, the one Roy started.”
        “Hold on a minute, let me send a ping.” There was a loud tolling, a rattle, and then there was a medley of notes coming out of the belly of the construct. Then all at once, the medley got into a great hurry, all the notes crashed together, became a polychord, and then passed into a frequency well out of my hearing.
        A minute later, almost exactly, the chute started making a profusion of whirs, clicks, and squeaks. Then the noise stopped and it opened its chute. “BLECH!” a periodical fell out. “You gonna need anything else?”
        I took up the periodical, shook my head, and started reading.
        “Gonna assume that’s a no, seeing as you didn’t give me eyes.” The chute snapped shut, a little indignantly.
        I meandered back over to my desk and sat on its edge, scanning columns feverishly.
        You really can’t trust most popular syndications in Alms-- the first world.
For one, the papers are all written in the Domestic Dialect-- the most crude and general distillate of The Edific Phrase. What this means is that the content of all the articles must be, by definition, general and uninformative. On its own that’s not so bad, I imagine it’s very good for sensationalism.
The real trouble is that sometimes the papers take it upon themselves to distribute new words to the public at large. This is always very popular because people get very tired of communicating the same ideas to each other, making the same noises, and hearing the same sounds; but, it’s always done for a reason.
Oftentimes it’s because one of The Mortuary Houses is staging an IPO for a new Salt or Effigy. First they want the public to understand what it is their product does, since Domestic Dialect doesn’t do so well with specific ideas. Then, they want the public to be thinking: ‘Well if I had something that could do That, my life would be much better more interesting.’ And wham, right as That is very popular, The Mortuary House comes in and says, “Well here, I have just the thing.”
        But, that’s mostly innocuous. Usually, it just means that someone spends some dracms on a fad obsession and by the end of the migration they have some new thing to clutter their house with.
        There are other times where it’s not so innocuous though.
Sometimes magicians require a lot of collective attention to be focused on a particular idea so they can complete a given spell; this can be strictly for the purpose of subsidizing power, but it can also be a method of targeting whole swathes of the population. Either case is perfectly legal and nobody regulates it.
Now, that sounds entirely ridiculous-- and it definitely is --but the official reasoning is this: ‘Anything directly harmful is a violation of Sin and most people don’t want to die.’
Which is true, but there’s a number of reasons why that doesn’t work.
In the first place, there’s always going to be someone willing to biff it to get their point across; and they’re typically working with a bunch of other people with the same idea and the same conviction. Sometimes that’s not bad, sometimes it works out in the favor of the public. Sometimes it doesn’t though and all of a sudden there’s a hundred people dead for the low low cost of one fanatic.
Then, there’s the whole thing with The Wrathless, folks who know all about how you can both work around Sin and directly harm it. They can kill, maim, mentally cripple, or enthrall a whole mess of people and experience absolutely no consequences for it. But thankfully, they’re few and far between, and they’re always being hunted.
Then there’s a real reason why it’s unregulated, which is that Guilds employ it all the time and they don’t exactly want to be open about that.
But hey, at least they feel bad enough about it to contest all the bad people abusing it.
        Now you’re probably thinking, ‘Wow, this whole socio-economic catastrophe could be solved by just axing the entire Domestic Dialect.’
        I’m here to say that that is absolutely not possible.
        See most people are fluent in three languages: Domestic Dialect, their Professional Patois, and their Familial Creole.
Professional Patois is whatever you learned to speak when you started training for your job; it’s what you speak with coworkers and industry peers-- it’s also the language that most trade journals are written in. Professional Patois is useful for explaining very specific ideas, typically endemic to the field you’re working in.
Familial Creole is what happens when two people from two different professions share a mutual attraction, bridge a language barrier to make it all happen, and have kids; the kids need to speak something at home that lets them relate and bond, so you get a proto-creole. Generations down the line you’ll end up with a very nuanced creole spoken by a specific lineage, that is extremely good at supporting a vast diversity of ideas-- but almost incomprehensible to anyone outside of the family.
        Then you have Domestic Dialect.
Domestic Dialect is good for saying: Hello, Goodbye, Lovely Weather Today, and many more late-great banalities. Its sole purpose is to make it possible for everyone to coexist, share an alphabet, and generally engage with society. Oh and to provide a medium for market manipulation, can’t forget that.
Then there’s Scribal Form, restricted language. Not actually restricted, you understand, it’s just unspeakably complicated. It’s the language of the entire Bourgeoisie: from Magicians, Magicians-Adjacent, and Scholars; all the way down to the Very Rich, Powerful, and/or Secretive.
Now you’re wondering: ‘How did this whole linguistic debacle happen?’
I’ll tell it to you plainly: people used to be smarter.
I don’t mean that in the way that most people mean it-- this isn’t an avenue for geriatric aggrandizement --I just mean that the intellectual baseline used to be much higher, in the far flung past.
Way back when, the Edific Phrase was the only language; it was a written language and it was incredibly complicated; I’m talking tonal elements, a color code, ridiculous syntax, variant forms of similarly ridiculous syntax, culturally encoded symbology, and three thousand more miles of bad road. The bonus was that fluent readers could compile and decompile enormous amounts of information in a very short amount of time. 
But it’s important to note that we didn’t develop the Edific Phrase, it was more of an imposition. Of course, that’s a whole story on its own. Suffice it to say, that the powers at the time needed a workforce intelligent enough to understand the Edific Phrase and so they raised the intellectual bar.
Things happened, we stopped being a workforce and became a bunch of rebels. It was all very old hat.
Our Founders knew we were all going to revert to a more basic level of intellect-- for whatever reason --so they developed whole strains of The Edific Phrase that were field specific and then they stripped the whole original language down to the most extremely basic elements. Wham! You have Professional Patois and Domestic Dialect, One Familial Creole on the way.
And now we have this shit show.
My point is that there is an extraordinary amount of power and complexity knocking around this place; that it’s important to be cautious when exploring popular media; and that there are always portents to found in any syndication, if you know what you’re looking for.
        Too bad I didn’t find anything relevant.
        Roy curates a periodical that takes all the major stories in the popular syndications, distills them into something a little more empirical, and then sprinkles in some less notable stories to boot. It’s a fantastic publication and it's got a whole pack of translators on the payroll. But as it turns out, nothing pertinent to the investigation had happened in the last month.
        That didn’t mean nothing interesting had happened. No, something real real bad happened three weeks ago.
        The entire population of Nerain’s Elba had vanished.
        Nerain’s Elba is famously full of mad artists, poets, and visionary magicians; so I can’t say it was entirely unexpected. But still, it’s not everyday that a thousand people vanish altogether.
        I read the article.
#
Officials have yet to report on the sudden disappearance of more than one thousand individuals living in and around Nerain’s Elba. At this time we only know that whatever happened, it happened in the course of a night, as-- according to multiple peripheral contacts --there were no missing persons until the event. Guild Information Experts have communicated that there is a strict information embargo being imposed on them by their respective guilds. And, it seems that this embargo extends to local freelancers as well.
Whatever happened, it’s bad.
From what few sources we managed to collect, we have gleaned the following
A violent magical event occurred sometime in the early morning and lasted for three hours-- according to a monitoring station just outside the district.
There was no resulting ‘Death Echo’ in The Halls, as might be expected from an influx of one thousand freshly dead souls.
Sin was seen to have fully manifested in response to and/or during the event.
There has been a strong implication that the missing individuals are presumed dead.
The Eight Idols have taken up with the Guilds in a policy of “No Comment.”
Though it should be noted that in every group appearance made by The Idols since the event, they have been missing a member. Paisley, Idol of The Glasswright, has been missing since the event.
What this all means, is a mystery. But you can be sure we will supply you with a full and accurate accounting of events when we know more.
--K. R., Guild Magician of The Blossoms
#
I put the paper down and thought a minute. “Shit.”
I stood up and went into the library. The hearth was out, now that morning had rolled around, so I finally felt comfortable about leaving my office.
I went over to a corner of the room and started knocking on the floor boards until I found something harder than the rest of the wood. I found it after only a moment, a rectangle of hard material. Keeping my hand on the space, I pulled out a piece of paper and a pen. I wrote out a Phrase. “What’s under your hair?” And then I slapped the paper face down on the rectangle.
        The paper ripped down the middle and the rectangle dropped its semblance. Neatly cut into the floorboards was an ironwood plate, only slightly parted from the surrounding boards and a smidge taller.
        It took some doing but I prised it up and revealed the contents of a chest.
        The books within were extremely illegal-- or at least it was illegal to have them outside of a guild controlled library. But what can I say, I really like to do everything at home.
        I started pulling the tomes out.
None of them were very large, more like hefty novellas than textbooks. The one I was looking for was the thinnest and I found it at the bottom. Written in neat copper gilt font, the title read:
Characteristics of Ascension by Sublimation; Transpositional Qualities of Sin.
        I started flipping through the pages, scanning madly.
        I had read it many migrations before, sometime after I had started my investigations on The Sun Cults. Horrible book. Here, I’ll show you.
#
Even in the usurpation of the earth-- of the mortal eye, of essential disparity --worship remains vast and irreducible.
Though it is not as it was.
It is worship without Piety, Piety without sacrifice. It is Sainthood and the conservation of the Banal and Venal.
It is freedom from Tyranny and it is Ruling. It is a Way paved with your ecstasy, a Shadow raised by The Sun and the Edifice wrought of your lifetime.
It was in my apotheosis that I learned to worship The Mouth, The Beast, and The Fruit. It was in them that I learned I was only a stomach. It was in them that I learned Identity was an elixir, that I was not only Fluid but Vessel too. And so Holy Absence was born in me-- the aching craving for elixir, for solution, for ego.
Though I now span eons, though I am one with the immortal, I too am bounded-- for all things wear the human caul, all things come to their ends, all things are condemned to the condition of shape.
It is in this tale that I attain my ending, consumed by one greater and yet more empty.
He is my ward, my parent, my god, my victim, my consumer.
Here be the tale of The Name, written by the Gut of The World.
Here be the solvent bringing You closer to I, drawing We Two into the suspension of my newborn tale.
#
I mean what does that even mean? Sure it’s flowery and pretty but I’ll be damned if I can make heads or tails of it. And they’re all just like that, deeply couched in metaphors and maybe not metaphors. It’s awful, speaking as a magical scholar. But it’s probably for the best, I think if it was slightly less arcane, people would do this sort of thing much more frequently.
        I found the page I was looking for.
#
Pass out from the body and the throng. Burn in glorious taboo and pass out from this world, into the Sky. You who have been touched by The Sea, The Roads, The Wyrms, and The Crypts, you will bear the four fold mark, attain the fifth and enter into the House.
Enter the House and receive The Name.
Pass from the House and return to fallen earth as a token, a shadow, a messenger of The Sun.
Shine with the light of as many pyres as you have sold.
Ascend through the rut of Sin and attain The Name
Attain The Name
At all costs
Attain The Name
#
I swear these people would’ve been better served if they’d gone into literature.
        I’ll give you the essentials: Sun Cultists are obsessed with the fascist paradigm.
They love lines like: All as One, One over All; Community over Self, Self as Community; and really any other circular arguments meant to take an individual identity and completely transpose it into a group identity. The reasons are manifold.
        In the first place, I’ve never been able to find a single cult ritual that didn’t require at least three participants. The tradition’s entire practical framework requires a group and even if you transitioned the practice into a format that didn’t require multiple people, the energy requirements are prohibitive. I mean every single effect requires astronomical amounts of energy, for no apparent good reason.
        Now you have the (implicated) guarantee of power but the obstacle is a great big heaping hell of a lot of grisly and dangerous work. See Sun Cultists used to just hunt down all the other driven psychopaths out there and they’d get together and do whatever it is that they like to do. Then one guy said, “Gee, wouldn’t it be nice if we could just have an institution that spat out skilled, faceless, and domesticated mortal labor?”
        Then everyone nodded and all their families nodded, and now we have a social virus.
        Not to mention I think the entire paradigm really does require the sacrifice of your individuality to some extent. I mean the symbolism is obsessed with the progressive amelioration of The Self or The Other with The Sun.
        And it really does work, the highly initiated and very conscious priests of the various cults are all seriously potent magical threats.
        So we have a prolific cult whose power scales proportionally to the number of schmucks they can get fooled into their ideology, the number of people they can sacrifice, and just how much attention they can get from a Dead God.
        And a few days ago a thousand notably mad individuals vanished, along with an Idol, all of them presumed dead. The Idols pointed a token finger at The Wrathless, but I’ll tell you now that that’s really just a boogeyman ploy they use to keep people unaware of the fact that there’s a whole lot more out there besides The Wrathless that don’t mind killing people to further their ends.
        It smacked of The Sun Cult.
        And here I was: a recluse for better than a dozen migrations and one of a very limited number of people with approved access to the relevant literature. Oh and I had a very illegal cache of extremely illegal books about Sun Cult methodologies.
        Wouldn’t it be a shame if--
        There was a banging at my door.
        “SHIT!” I hissed and started shoving the books back into the cache. “Fuck, fuck, fuck, fuck--” I had started slapping them into the cache haphazardly, and now the lid was refusing to fit.
        ‘It’s fine,’ I thought. ‘It have a little bit of time before I need to answer the--’
        I heard Cynthia clip, clop, and groan to the door. There was a squeak and then I heard her say, “How may I help you?”
I smashed the lid onto the pile and started jumping up and down, hammering the books in. The books had just given way and the lid had just slid into place when I heard footsteps come down the hall. No time to reset the illusion.
A man in his thirties came into my library, short flaxen hair, olive skin, all done up in a cream colored number. He looked a shade effete and his hands were all fingers, manicured nails, and soft skin. He had a horrifically floppy hat in his hand and he seemed to burn with confidence.
He was smiling at me, “Howdy! I trust you’re the Thesier? Simon?”
I blinked at him, dumbly. His face was uncannily familiar, but I couldn’t remember from where. I caught myself staring. “Uh, yes. I’m sorry, have we met?”
He barked a laugh. “No, I’m afraid not. But you would’ve known my father from your work with The Idols and maybe on campaign through the Eight Worlds. Man by the name of Bain? He was very handy with human resources and similar.”
The name jogged my memory. “Yes! He and I met as quartermasters on tour with The Yews. Ran into him again on contract with The Idols. Good man.” I nodded, staring off. “I imagine he’s passed? He was forty the last time I saw him, and that was fifty migrations ago.”
“He did, just at the beginning of this Season.”
“My condolences.” I shook my head. Founders above that was strange-- a strange thing to say and a strange thing to think about. “Uhm, what can I help you with?”
“I assume you’ve heard about the whole event with the Elba?”
“Yes.” I pointed at the periodical, draped over an armchair. “But only just now.”
He scanned the paper and something a little plastic drifted into his smile. “Ah, you read Roy’s syndication.”
“You don’t approve?”
“I understand.” He said, a little stiffly, and then his expression softened a smidge. “He just makes everything such a damn headache.” He wiggled his jaw. “Anyways. I’m here to question you.”
“On behalf of The Idols?”
“Mmm...sort of. I’m here on behalf of the other Idols.”
My eyebrows climbed a half measure. “Oh, good for you. Last time I worked with The Idols, the youngest was nearly as old as I am now.” I thought for a minute. “You must be very good at what you do. Which one are you?”
“Idol of The Diplomat.” And then he fixed me with a glittering, pointedly forced, smile. “See?” He indicated his pearly white teeth. “The proof’s in the shine.” He dropped the smile, but maintained his air of faint amusement. “It’s the polish we put on all the asses I kiss.”
I smiled at him, for the first time. “What do I call you?”
He faltered a moment. “Uh, Bain. It’s a cognomen.”
“Is it really? That’s very rare to see in The Guilds. I’d never have known your father was a distaff.”
 Distaff families are formed by the outcasts of a Mortuary House; deposed rivals, exiled siblings, disgraced courtiers, or similar. They’re like all the other Heirs: excellent genetic makeup and power in their blood; the only thing they’re missing is House finances and all the social standing. Usually they move to one of The Eight worlds and get whatever variety of work they’re suited for, or sometimes the less brave outcasts become freelance petty magicians or contract workers in The Third World. Very rarely do distaff families join the guilds, due to a very long and storied rivalry between The Mortuary Houses and The Guilds.
Distaff families tended to employ a cognomen after being stripped of their status, for certain mystical and proprietary reasons.
“He never told you?” Roy asked, quirking an eyebrow.
“I mean I never thought to ask. I was never exactly the talkative type.”
He snorted. “That’s funny, I’ve never met a magician that didn’t notice right off the bat.”
“It’s all the head-up-my-ass.” He laughed and I smirked, what a disturbingly affable man. “Now, what can I do for you?”
“Well all I really need is an alibi. Where were you three days ago?”
I pointed, more or less exactly, at my desk. “I was soundly asleep in my study. Mmm, well, actually sleeping might be a stretch-- more accurate to say that I was in a coma.”
He nodded. “And is there anyone that can confirm that story?”
I pointed at Cynthia, who had been loitering in the shadow of a coat rack. “She could.”
His face fell a little. “Is there anyone you didn’t make that can corroborate that?”
        I opened my mouth and then closed it. “Well no. I haven’t been out in thirteen migrations and I don’t receive visitors-- normally, anyways.”
Bain’s lips twisted into something displeased. “I see.”
I started to really freak out then. I mean I’d had a lot change for me in the last two days but I could see that Bain was thinking about detaining me. Detain, as in haul me out of my house. I really didn’t want that to happen but I was short on reasons why it wouldn’t happen. My awareness wandered down into my foot, and I thought about exactly how much I wasn’t disguising the cache by just standing on it.
“...Sir?”
My eyes flicked back up to his face. “What? I’m sorry. My attention has a way of getting away from me. What’d you say?”
#


































The Lock
“I asked if you wanted to sit.” Bain indicated one of the arm chairs.
        “Yes, right, that’d be great.” I looked at the chair I’d dragged to the window and dragged it over to me.
You know, extremely suspiciously.
        If Bain thought it was odd, he didn’t let it show. He just drew the armchair a little closer to me and took a seat. “So fortunately for you, there’s quite a lot of room for recourse before we have to take you into custody.”
        I nodded. “Right. Good. I’ll be glad to cooperate.”
        “Great. Then let’s start with this, who have you seen in the last week?”
        “Uh, I just had two old friends over yesterday, only for about an hour.”
        “I thought you didn’t entertain?”
        “I don’t. Things have just gotten very strange just recently.”
        “I see. Well first, can you provide me with the names and addresses of your associates?”
        “Certainly.” I told him.
        “And could you tell me how things have been strange?”
        “Right, well, it’s a hell of a story. I mean I can certainly tell you, but I doubt it’ll be very relevant to your investigation.”
        “Ah well, try me.”
        I told him. It took about an hour or two, but I told him and by the end, he seemed-- strangely enough --a little blase. I thought it very rude of him.
“So that’s two days accounted for.” He seemed to make a mental note.
“What? Is that all? I detail a great, long, strange story and all you can do is say ‘Ah yes, that’s those days booked.’”
“I’m sorry, sir. It’s only that my job is to interview magicians, and I think you shouldn’t be surprised to hear that they always have similar tales to tell, and they all inevitably check out.”
Right, yet another reason I’d checked out of the social scene. Magic-- and maybe anything strange or extraordinary --was so incredibly common in Eydre that it had been washed of its wonder. You could detail whatever ecstatic experience you wanted to, to whomever you wanted, and more often than not you’d find them telling you about their own similar experience that they’d had, only the week before. It got very tiresome very quickly, for everyone, and anyone that didn’t recede from society either learned to become indifferent to affairs and accounts outside their life or otherwise lost their sense of wonder entirely.
I guess wonder isn’t really something you get to keep as an Idol, because in the face of Bain’s marble expression I felt downright inadequate. I knew that he was only interested insofar as I was a suspect and until I verified that I was or wasn’t relevant to his investigation-- to his life --he would find me wanting.
So in five whole minutes this man had terrified me, compelled me to be affable, and then made me feel like a child desperate for approval. And worse yet, even though I was fully conscious of his manipulation, I both needed his approval for practical reasons, and was entirely okay with him pulling my strings.
“If we could continue cataloguing your week, sir.”
“Right. Well, couldn’t you check my comings and goings using the imprint of my Essence Shadow? You should still have it on record.”
He smiled, apparently he’d been hoping I’d mention this. “In point of fact, we don’t. It’s a fairly common issue in investigative magic, one we don’t like to mention, but the process of transitioning into a post-mortal state tends to render any previous model of an individual’s essence entirely obsolete. It’s actually the main reason I’m here. Of all the possible suspects we have to hand, you’re the only one for whom our records can make no account of. We have no idea what you’ve been doing for thirteen migrations, and so it only makes sense to do homework on you.”
“Well I’d be glad to fix that, I can supply you with a current model-- if you’d like.”
“That would be great, actually. It’d go a long way towards exonerating you and I’ll be able to ask you to start consulting again.”
“You’re going to ask me to consult again?”
“You can do it from home, if you like. It’s only that I could benefit from your expertise.”
“So it’s Sun Cults, again?” I spoke before I could even begin to think about exactly how stupid it would be to say it.
He arched an eyebrow. “Who said anything about Sun Cults?”
Oh boy would I be blanching if I could. I started to stammer.
“Do you know something relevant to the case?” His eyes had gone hard as borer bits.
“Uh well, like I said I’d just read the syndication and it made me think of something I’d read during my old work. The whole thing reminded me of--” I stopped.
“Reminded you of?” He pressed.
“Well it reminded me of a characteristic more or less endemic to The Sun Cults. It’s like when the Wrathless murder or sacrifice for their magic, those people still make it down to The Halls, right? I mean even The Wrathless make it down there.”
He nodded.
“Well the funny thing about Sun Cult sacrifices, and Sun Cultists in general, is the fact that they don’t go anywhere. It doesn’t matter what gets sacrificed, their essence doesn’t get reconstituted-- it just sort of vanishes. It’s the main reason we don’t know more about them.”
I stopped and called up a memory, the one that had gotten me to open up the cache. “The last contract I worked for The Idols, was an investigation on a commune at Heading Peak. There had been complaints from a few local landowners and it had somehow gotten the attention of The Idols. Well I showed up to the scene with a team of other contractors and you know it was pretty typical stuff for a cult. I didn’t notice anything really strange besides a generally pronounced facility with magic; above and beyond most cults, I mean most of these folks were amateur book magicians, I even met a few graduates from Cayrel. To look at them you’d sort of just figure them for a standard familiar cult-- folks that like to bond to nature spirits and live out their lives in communion.”
I adjusted into a slightly more comfortable posture. “The only issue was that they wouldn’t let us investigate their compound. So we set up a camp at a nearby acreage and waited for a warrant. And I don’t know. Maybe it was us or maybe it was just ideal timing, but sometime in the night they did something. There was a flash on the hill, at their compound. And you know, that’s pretty telltale. But, we had to wait for the warrant to come in before we could safely breach the perimeter of their Demesne. So we watched that hill, and over and over we saw that light flash-- turning night to day.”
“The warrant came at noon and we made a mad dash for that compound. We’d anticipated some sort of resistance or wardings but there was nothing, they’d even left the door open for us. And you know, the courtyard was fine, fuckin picturesque-- beautiful topiary, a pond, an ancient rhododendron. But we could smell the inside from the outer wall. They had slaughtered their familiars, covered the walls in anything that would stick or smear.”
Bain looked put off, for the first time. “Why?” He asked.
“It’s a crime that isn’t covered by Sin. Moreover, a familiar bears a pretty good portion of your own essence within itself and so a crime committed against your familiar tends to register as a crime against you. To Sin, the entire act was wrong. Moving it all around, covering the area like they did, it gave Sin something to look away from. And while Sin had its head turned, they got into these communal baths and they killed each other somehow. Or at least that’s what I imagine happened-- that would be consistent with cult methodology --I can only guess because there was nothing left but blood-- dried or congealed and all of it all over everything.”
“Why?” He really was baffled.
I blinked at the air, a carry over impulse from when I used to have tear ducts. “We found the result of their rite in a sealed urn down in a deep cellar. It was huge, like a brewery vat. The whole top was covered with some sort of mix of cork, gum, plaster, and wax. I knew from the symbols on the outside that they’d prepared it as a kind of receptacle for their energies. Rather than negotiate the top, we just cracked the whole urn.”
I cleared my throat. “Do you know what we found? It was an infant, nearly as big as that whole urn. It was alive, and it even gave me a look. The second the air touched its skin, though, it went still-- and just like that it died.”
I shook my head, shooing the memory away. “It rotted over the course of the next hour. And after that contract I got pretty serious about being able to retire from the world after I passed into immortality.”
“Why would they make something like that?”
“Sun Cults want to seize power for themselves by embodying the one being they think is perfect-- was perfect. It’s a fairly common practice, as I’m sure you’re aware. That’s what most of those On The Path are doing. It just so happens that they think The Sun was the perfect being, and so they work hard trying to contact his remnants. When they do, their essence reflects some of The Sun’s original being and it gets beamed back down to the earth. Most times, these reflections look like the transmission of occult knowledge. Other times, it's a permanent enchantment, one that grants some sort of subtle-- exotic --power. Regardless of the ritual or intention, the potency of these gifts scales with respect to the scope of the sacrifice. In most cases, a cult can only manage to evoke the mere shadow of The Sun. In this case, I think they were trying to incarnate The Sun.”
The vein in Bain’s head started to throb. “And you think that’s what happened at The Elba?”
“Maybe. If not exactly that, then something similar, either way large scale sacrifice is something really only practiced by Sun Cults.”
Bain’s eyes became unfocused and he frowned. “You’re under house arrest until such time as I have cleared you of involvement. See no one, do nothing. There will be a monitor on your door, if you leave we will know and we will place you under arrest with the intent to entomb.”
I opened my mouth to object, but Bain had already stood and swept out of the room. I stood and followed, more than a hair behind-- my reflexes are just really bad, and there’s like a full second delay built into me before I can respond to anything. He had left the house well before I could say anything.
“Well shit.” My voice was a little small.
“Shit indeed.” Cynthia croaked. “Should I drop a line to George and Dahlia?”
“Yes. Just say that I’ve been put on house arrest for the time being, that I’ll let them know when I’m free, and that in the meantime I’ll send them any worthwhile updates-- should there be any.”
Cynthia rolled off and I went into my office to think about what had just happened.
Our legal institutions don’t practice capital punishment, not because they can’t, because there are ways in which to kill people without calling down Sin. But, it wouldn’t make sense for an institution aligned with Sin to employ a work around. So instead of humanely murdering people, we do something altogether worse. We put them in a box in the ground and wait for them to die of natural causes.
Point being, I had said something odd enough to turn Bain onto the prospect of, essentially, murdering me. And moreover, he hadn’t taken my Essence record. So clearly the whole interview had been some variety of farce.
Someone had picked me out as a prime suspect, and it must’ve been for a very good reason if they were willing to ignore all the work I’d done for them. Which was damn odd, because while I possess the knowledge to perform the ritual, I got it from them and they still have an Oath on me that prevents me from employing that knowledge personally. Moreover, I very obviously couldn’t have performed the ritual, seeing as I’m more or less completely housebound.
        But, maybe it wasn’t that I’m a suspect, maybe they just want to control the spread of information-- limit the risk of contamination. Living in a society of magicians, it wouldn’t be impossible for someone to go around my noggin and cherry pick all my secrets. It’d be difficult, but it wouldn’t be impossible.
        Which meant that my information was valuable in some way.
        Meaning that ritual in The Elba had some sort of success-- probably something extraordinary.
        They were afraid of a door getting opened. They were afraid of all the brainiacs catching wind that yet another impossibility had entered into the world of earthly attainment.
        Maybe it was good that they were gonna get me squared away and separate from discerning interests. Maybe I’d get some much needed breathing room from the rest of my new problems.
        Then it occurred to me that someone had already gone rooting through my noggin. Vincent, whoever he was, might already possess all that dangerous information. There was no telling how long he’d been checking my mind over. He might even be responsible for what happened in The Elba.
        Founders abound, what if I really was responsible for all that death? Even if it wasn’t firsthand, I might very well have spelled the end for all those people, just the same.
        I didn’t even have the mental framework necessary to understand or process all that, so I stopped thinking about it.
        “Okay so things are bad, or worse, that's fine. How do I fix that?”
        The answer came, unbidden. ‘Run.’
        Ah yes, what astonishing wit lives between my ears. Having narrowly avoided the need to leave my own house, my immediate conclusion is to say, “Oh yes, how about I just ruin that small victory too, and make it all even worse.”
        ‘Well you don’t have to leave your house to escape.’
Oh. That actually could work.
        Very few serious students of Sigil magic study it to the exclusion of other kinds of magic. That’s because Sigils can only really work on the mind, they can do outstanding things to it and with it. But, ultimately you’re stuck with feats that you could feasibly accomplish given time, focus, and training. That’s why most discerning students of the discipline study supplementary Lores.
        Like with Cynthia or my other servitors, I couldn’t have created them without my knowledge of The Lore of The Diplomat. They were transpositions of my consciousness, tethered to the natural world through The Diplomat, and given continued life by a series of seals I keep in a very involved lockbox in the attic.
        I’ve been alive for a long time so I’ve become initiated into more than a few lores.
        In this case, I needed to employ my knowledge of two lores: The Blisterye and The Glasswright. More to the point, I needed to use their synergy school, a branch of magic that deals with the nature of personal spaces and so on. The trouble was that I only had a passing awareness of all three parts of magic, but I was more or less certain that I had their books to hand.
        Which meant I needed to cram.
        If I was planning on going on the lam, which I wasn’t.
        Once more that voice entered into my mind. ‘Well it couldn’t hurt to have some insurance. And besides, you always said you wanted to explore the subject at a later date. Well now is a later date, isn’t it? Plus, it seems like Vincent has some awareness of that magic-- it couldn’t hurt to get brushed up.’
        This voice was making some very good points. I mulled it over. “Fine, I’ll just do some research to pass the time, not like I have anything better going on.”
        Then I spent a solid month reading.
        There wasn’t much more to it than that, sorry to say. I didn’t get any visits from Bain, I didn’t get anything back from George and Dahlia, and I certainly didn’t get any more night time visitations. Which meant that I could go ahead and dedicate all my attention to my craft.
        So I read and read and read, and made just barely enough headway to design an appropriate ritual.
        Which is honestly record breaking time.
        See, Magicians of The Book are historians in chief. Our magic is rooted in the meditation on the stories of those Magicians that came before-- Lores, as we call them. We learn the pivotal moments of a magician’s life, uncover their secrets, perfect our intellectual knowledge of that story, and by slow inches we glean the means by which to imitate their great feats. It takes a long time to glean power in this way, and our power is a mere shadow of the power we research, but we can attain a flexibility impossible to the other kinds of Magician in Eydre.
        For example, George is a Magician of The Path-- a Priest; that means he’s devoted to a specific magician from the past, in this case it’s: Gair The Leper, Disciple of The Blistereye. Gair was a craftsman so dedicated to his people that he worked himself to death and then got right back up to keep working. So, everytime George finishes making something he’ll go ahead and give himself a scar or participate in some death ritual or what have you. His power directly corresponds to how much empathy he has for his chosen magician-- how much he embodies that magician. So you could ask George to build you anything and he’d not only do it for free, he’d make it the most wonderful example of its kind. But, George can’t really do anything but make stuff or do things that Gair did.
        Likewise with Dahlia, her power stems from her pedigree and scales with respect to her physical excellence. She traces descent from one of the twenty three eidolons created by The Founders. Those Eidolons had a specific body of powers upon which to draw, one that corresponded to the sort of work they were made to embody. Those Eidolons had kids, those kids formed The Mortuary Houses and some of those kids retain the power of their ancestors-- they are called Heirs or Magicians of The Blood. They’re all more or less one trick ponies but they have the advantage of a whole lot of training and that trick is usually something grossly potent. They’re also not quite like other mortals, so magic has some difficulty latching on unless you’ve made the right alterations.
        Point being, all Magicians obtain their power from myths, legends, stories. Dahlia is the story, she’s the monster and the hero. George worships the story, preaches it, embodies it, heralds it, is the prophet of it. I research the story and obtain the bare silhouette of it, then I scramble those patterns and forms together to get new stories.
        Which is why I can create a portal to George’s foyer after cramming my head full of the history, philosophy, biographies, and ethics of two long dead magicians.
        The principle is simple, George built both of our houses using the same techniques, processes, and materials. Our two houses possess some degree of architectural sympathy. If I could refine other points of sympathy between our two houses, I could bring them closer to each other in a sort of ideological sense. 
        By employing The Blisterye I could take a particular room of my house and scrub it of my essence, and then I could impose somebody else’s Essence on the room. The ritual is called The Hall of The Many; The One. By doing that I could essentially make that room George’s property.
        Now built into the topology of Eydre is a nifty little backdoor plane. It was originally created for the purposes of encouraging community over vast distances but quickly became the haunt of many an adulterating magician so it is now called The Liaison.
The Liaison takes all the homes in Eydre, sorts and arranges them by relevance with respect to the inhabitant, tenant, or designated owner(s) of the house. So if you stepped into The Liaison from your plush apartment, you might find the front door of your best friend’s condominium just a ways away, or maybe you’d see the door to your childhood bedroom. The trouble is that if you were to step into The Liaison from your friend’s condominium, you might find the door to your apartment and you might find a series of other doors and become lost rather quickly.
        By designating a room as George’s property, and creating a portal to The Liaison from my house, I’d create an exception error that could skip the need to travel at all. To The Liaison they were the same place so I’d just get bounced to the main door of George’s house.
It would be very important that it not read like I had left the boundary of the house at all, the monitor they’d installed on my house would check for dimensional travel too and if that went off I was screwed. That monitor, however, definitely wouldn’t check to see if I had suddenly disappeared or not. And that’s what the transportation would look like to any mystic observer, me being in one place, then two, and then instantaneously being in another.
        I scrawled the Phrase on the wall of my living room, yet another room I haven’t used in a very long time-- if ever did. As I wrote it, I could feel my newly gained understanding beginning to ebb as it was transposed onto the wall like intellectual vomit.
That was another reason why Lore magic took so long to learn, you could shove a lot of understanding into your brain but the first few times you successfully employed that knowledge you would completely lose all of your progress. It meant I’d be able to use the portal one time unless I wanted to spend another month learning the spell again.
One small advantage was that because the spell was being cast using my Sigils, it was rooted in a symbology only I understood, therefore I’d be the only person that the portal would work for and an inspection would be unlikely to yield an significant answers about the purpose of the inscription.
        In short: I had a one way ticket out of my home, there was no chance of being followed through it, and the Idols wouldn’t be able to grab me on the pretext of suspicion about it.
        Sometime after I’d finished the inscription, I found myself in my office, lying on my desk, pressing my palms to my eyelids.
        I was thinking about my experience with Vincent, as was my wont these days.
        I was trying to understand exactly how he’d managed to slap me with the Mystery Play. Moreover, how had he gotten George and Dahlia at the same time-- with seemingly different spells. I mean it wasn’t impossible, but it would’ve taken planning and the execution would’ve been pretty difficult.
        I started to break the problem down into smaller parts.
The first problem: how had he reached into our homes. The condition of being in your home fundamentally changed you as a target, if a spell wanted to get your goat in your own home the caster had to possess a Key-- a token marking your trust of that person and your willingness to allow them access to your home and your most private self.  Needless to say, I wasn’t in the habit of handing those out-- George and Dahlia don’t even have my Keys and they’re about as close to family as I’ve got.
        So Vincent found a work around.
        He could’ve targeted us from the Mnemesne, as our minds entered into REM sleep. ‘Course that assumes he was able to just hang out in the Mnemesne, which is a little ridiculous.
The Mnemesne is the Fifth World Beside, it is the embodied record of all thoughts, dreams, and fantasies. It was constructed to provide a complete record of mortal consciousness and it is the least frequented of all the eight worlds. It’s very dangerous, as you can imagine, and it’s also pretty disturbing-- as in: you’d make it about an inch past the border and get confronted by the dreams of both a child and a pedophile.
If somebody wanted to target us through the Mnemesne, they’d have either to be there or contrive some method of tunneling there with pretty serious dimensional magic. Then after getting there, they’d have to find all three of us and drop three separate spells in sequence. I felt pretty comfortable ruling that out as a possibility.
But from there we got into difficulties.
Was he a parasite latched onto our brains? Propagating throughout Eydre? That sounds ridiculous but really there’s nothing that can’t happen here. I realized that I really didn’t want to find out I had a slug latched onto my metallurgical endocrines. So, I went back to assuming I was just dealing with a very competent magician.
Now we have the shadowy outline of a culprit, but where’s his motive? What reason does he have for targeting me and my friends?
Sure, I’ve lived a long life with plenty of stories and in that time I’ve gone ahead and made enemies. But all those guys are dead, or they’ve forgotten about me.
Then there’s that whole business with the Sun Cults. It’s possible Vincent was just one of those lunatics, maybe even the one that pulled off the ritual in The Elba. Maybe I was getting targeted by a godlike figure. That still didn’t answer the question of why. If he was sore about my work dismantling other cults, why not just zap me or do something actively harmful.
So no, not that either.
I tried to think about whether or not I’d pissed off a neighbor or otherwise noticed some psychopathic tendencies in the last thirteen migrations.
And nada, just a few hundred interactions with my daimons, Cynthia, and...
Didn’t I name the fireplace?
I sat up. That knitted some things together. If he’d had an insider agent he could’ve sent the spell that way. I frowned, suddenly a little guilty. The fireplace was so affable and well meaning, it hardly seemed right to just accuse him of espionage.
That didn’t make it less strange that I hadn’t named the fireplace. I’m the guy that anthropomorphizes everything, I wouldn’t just not assign a name to a construct.
I went into the library and rapped sharply on the mantle piece, it was morning and the embers were starting to smolder.
The fire sputtered into flame. “Ugh...what?”
“What’s your name?”
“Oh, did you go demented while you were avoiding me?”
“Maybe, we’re gonna find out together. What is your name?”
“Founders abound, Simon, don’t you remember?”
“In point-of-fact, I don’t. Now tell me your name or I’m gonna scrub your sigil.”
The fire blue shifted and spat white sparks. “What? Oh so now it’s my fault that you didn’t bother to remember my name?”
“I think it’s strange that you came on all by yourself right after my brain got interdicted.”
“I didn’t! I-I-” The fireplace stumbled, fumbling for an answer. “It was Cynthia! She put me on rotation.”
I fixed something stern and thunderous onto my face. Time to sell the bluff. “I thought you said it was the overseer last time? Course that’s not possible because the overseer isn’t autonomous, can’t make decisions or assignments without being told to.”
“I meant Cynthia! It was just a slip of the tongue, calm down.”
I fixed something stern and thunderous onto my face, time to sell the bluff. “Cynthia says that she doesn’t remember doing it.” It shot a few more sparks in its hurry to start speaking, but I cut it off. “Enough! I’ve found you out, now who are you? Give me your name.” I was really hoping that I had something here. I didn’t want to have to repair all this relational damage.
There was a stillness and the fire started to die down. “Alright. Alright. You’ve got me.” The hearth smoldered into darkness, into white ash and coals. There was one last pulse of heat and a name revealed itself in the dying fire.
Ardeo.
“What!?” I spat. “That doesn’t make any damn sense.”
And then I felt something in my brain give way, as if some invisible pressure had relented. I felt my memories about that fireplace rush right out of my brain, as if a plug had been pulled.
When all those fabrications had gone, I found the hazy remnant of the memory of a man I had known.
Ardie, my brother.
That was the extent of my revelation, the simple understanding that I had had a brother. There were no memories associated with it.
        Ardie? Like Vincent’s brother, Ardie? Ardeo.
        Ardeo. Hadn’t I called that name in the very beginning? And why hadn’t I noticed then? What did it mean?
        I wish I had a stomach to be sick with.
        I wish that I didn’t feel like a fucking ghost, forever a part of, yet separate from, the world of the breathing and fucking. I wish that I didn’t feel like all that is good and whole about me are my memories; at least that way, the prospect of my brain being scrambled wouldn’t be a world ending possibility; at least that way, I’d have a few different kinds of violation to experience before I felt used up. At least if I had tear ducts and a stomach, I could cry and feel wretched-- vomit and cramp and nurse an ulcer.
        But instead all I had was a dull aching-- groaning --pain, implacable and without locus. I had nothing to curl up around, only the urge to root myself in something solid and true.
        I thought about going to sleep.
        Founders Abound, I could sleep. I could just dream forever and walk out of this paranoid delusion. Why couldn’t I just do that? Flip the paradigm and stick it to this up jumped conspiracy? Hah, jokes on you I’m more violently escapist than you anticipated?
        No. I knew that I’d just circle back to being here, in this position or in another. I always had been, always would be, here handling some trite mystery. That was what had been the hallmark of my life as a mortal man and now it was the immortal pattern of my foreseeable eternity. It was honestly a minor miracle that I’d gotten those thirteen migrations undisturbed.
        Scratch that last bit, that’s completely up in the air as of now.
        But I did have a point, sometimes the best thing to do is just to count your blessings and mutter darkly.
        I checked the lockbox in the attic first. There was a seal for the fireplace, but it wasn’t for imparting sentience it was...
        Scripted?
        It was hard to tell because I’d never used a phrase like that before, but I could look at it and guess pretty accurately at its function. Which was alarming in and of itself, because it meant that I had written it.
        The seal had possessed a series of scripted interactions, it had exhausted them sequentially, and then it’d cracked itself right down the middle.
        Almighty Queen, every second I spent looking at this case yielded yet another obliquity or impossibility. In this case, I’d flawlessly predicted what I was going to say and generated an entire personality around it, all just so that I could hide the fact that I’d had a portion of my memory deleted.
        Now it was impossible that that script had been so perfect, even if it was done by me. Slightly less impossible but stranger was that I had done it; I know I did it, if only because only I could have done it.
        So apparently I was in cahoots against myself?
        I was getting tired of all these questions and implications, they gave me phantom pain in my head and chest.
        Maybe it was all that pent up pain and all those revelations, but I was keyed up. Somebody was pointing me, guiding, controlling me. It insulted my dignity. It was violating. So I did something rash. Something really awful.
        I broke that lockbox, grabbed it by a handle and beat it against a beam until the handle snapped and then I broke it some more.
        And all the while, I could feel all those little lives winking out. I said that it was better this way, that I shouldn’t have had them all on strings either. That I’d suffered this new pain for what I’d been doing.
        It’s not a crime, as far as Sin is concerned. Every consciousness was only me in simplified microcosm or me but moderately altered. Sin cannot punish you for what you do to yourself, and Sin cannot punish you for what you do to your children.
        I thought about that while I screamed and raged in that attic. It had always nettled me that that of all things condemned by Sin, would be a thing overlooked. Surely a crime against your own flesh and blood would be the highest crime of all; surely that, of all things, should be an impulse that can cook your brain.
        But I could see then that there was a practicality to it. More than needing you to look after their care, a child will always be immediately tethered to you and it will see you as something more than just a resource-- you are the origin for all that it is, you have granted it the divinity of life and experience. You and your child are one and the same and what one can do to the other, good or ill, is holy-- under no purview but your own.
        Sin will not punish you for a crime against yourself whether it be infanticide, matricide, fratricide, or patricide.
        Sin will not punish you for a crime against yourself.
        The thought followed me, echoing over and over, a susurrus of voices, laced as often with pity as with scorn, ecstasy, or mockery.
It took me over, it made me vanish into some vast dark explosion of numbness. It made me wander, made me walk through a hazy dementia. I think I screamed once, maybe twice, calling wordlessly for something I couldn’t remember.
        It was many hours later when I finally came to my senses.
        I was strung out on a couch, a well worn affair made of crushed velvet and stiff cushioning. I thought about sitting up, but I didn’t see why I should. It was dark, and besides, whatever was going to happen would happen all on its own.
        The least I could do was lay down and take it.
#
  

The Chain
It began the way it always does.
        Slowly.
        The rafters resolved into fuzzy grayscale.
        Hadn’t I been here once? Twice? Many times? How many times?
        “Doesn’t matter.” I said.
Only I hadn’t said it, my mouth hadn’t moved, and I certainly didn’t think it.
        “Focus.” I whispered.
        Mmm... this is gonna get confusing, we’ll just call it The Voice.
        “You’re not listening.” The Voice purred. It was my voice, but I guarantee that I’ve never sounded so sensuous in my whole life-- ergo, it was something besides me. “We only have a minute or three,” I felt something nuzzle my ear. “Ask.”
        I swallowed. “Uhm... where is this? What are you?”
        “It’s Just Us Two.” I felt fingertips glide over my stomach.
        I jerked up, off my back, and checked my abdomen for skin. It was too dark to see properly, but I could feel that there was only smooth, cool, alloy. For a minute it had felt like I’d had skin again, like I could get goosebumps and be ticklish.
I felt around me and realized that I had lurched all the way over to the other end of the couch, like some much abashed adolescent. “Okay, so you answered exactly neither of my questions.”
“Oh, but I did.” I felt breath on the back of my neck. “All that I am is this place, and this is the place where it’s Just Us Two.”
“Oh,” realization dawned, “a spirit of intimacy?” My eyebrows knitted together. Why in the hells was I being visited by a spirit of intimacy?
“You got it.” There was a pulse of heat that started at my temple and rippled down and out to all my extremities. It felt good, relaxing.
“And why exactly are you visiting me?”
“That would be telling, love. You’re supposed to figure it out all on your own.” There was a brief pause. “But you’ll need to be quick, the window is limited.”
“Okay, okay, okay.” I realized that there was a lump in my throat. I was nervous.
It took my hand, and I felt new warmth and weight on my left. “Just relax. I can’t hurt you. I would never hurt you.” It was whispering into my ear, and I felt a hand slide up into my hair.
Hair? I started to reach up to check my scalp.
“Don’t. Don’t move your body. It makes it harder to keep this going.” I felt its fingers start twirling lazy spirals with my locks. “Just think,” it breathed. “Just relax. Just breathe. It’ll come.”
I restrained the impulse to stand up, and just leaned into the embrace. It wasn’t like my situation could get much worse.
“You have my voice. That’s not normal for spirits of intimacy.”
“Isn’t it? I mean what am I really for?”
I thought about it. Spirits of Intimacy are not, as you might imagine, inherently sexual. They are certainly sensuous but their nature doesn’t lend itself to casual liaison because while sensuous, their visitation is not necessarily gratifying.
No, Spirits of Intimacy are typically used for therapy or counseling, they create dialogues that are not normally possible even with standard mediation. A spirit of intimacy can: keep you grounded and relaxed, tell you about the things that bother you, and most importantly they can help you work through dialogues that are impossible to have otherwise. For the most part that means they can help you get through marriage counseling or resolve past traumas, but in this case I already had some notion about its purpose.
“You’re here to get me to have a conversation, and you’re using my voice. So it’s something I could only say to myself?”
“Yes... I guess you could say so.” It pressed a warm hand to my neck. There was another pulse of heat at my temple.
“I could say so, but it’s not exactly right? Or am I right for our purposes?”
“It’s not so one and done as a word or a phrase it’s more...” There was a pulse of heat at my neck, just under my jaw.
“Oh...you’re here to get me into contact with myself?” I was about to smile, then I frowned. “That doesn’t make sense.”
“Oh, but doesn’t it just?” It sounded a little sad. “How long did it take you to realize you’d been changed?” I felt the heat relent a little, and it turned my head so that I was staring into the darkness, staring at It. “How can you ever know the extent to which you have been altered, now that it has already come to pass?”
I felt a pang in my chest and I let my head drop. I blinked and for a moment I thought I could feel tears.
“It’s okay...” The Voice cooed. “It’s okay, Simon. Of all the crimes there are, least is the crime of self-neglect. It is easy, afterall, to glimpse the vast, terrible, savage beauty of the universe and forget you are as much a part of it as all the other things you have ever or will ever learn to hate, love, or neglect.” It set a hand to my cheek. “But it is still a crime, and I’m here to help you make amends.”
“Amends?” My voice had gone hoarse.
“Amends,” it agreed. “Amends for the things you have done to yourself and amends for the things you have done while you were in pain, while you were blind.” Its voice cracked midway through, as if in pity. “Now,” it pressed its head to mine. “Ask me who sent me.”
There was old tension in my chest. I didn’t want to say it.
“Please,” it said, gently pleading. “Please just say it. Say it for me.”
“Who sent you?”
The Spirit came away from me and I suddenly felt the cold all around me. “You did. You have sent me, will send me again, and again. You and I are the oldest friends in the world. You and I will dance this dance on and on, until at last you are free and then you will weave this chain once again. This is the circle, the stepping stone from which you will ascend, to attain a new name.”
        I opened my mouth to speak.
        “Goodbye lovey, I’ll talk to you before the end and see you after.”
        The cold stole into my bones, so bracing I had to shiver. And then the darkness parted into a smear of visual data.
        I blinked my eyes but the smear remained. It slowly began to resolve into colors, vivid and distinct.
Oh.
It had been too long since I’d seen it in the flesh. I felt an old familiar pang in my chest as I looked into the sky, stared into its face like a man smitten. Founders Abound, why had I denied myself this glory?
        “Sir?” It was Bain.
        I felt a cool dark tendril snake up from my belly into my throat. Yes of course, that was why. The Sky had too many lovers breaking its heart. I could feel its pain now, more than my own. The Sky was screaming, and no one was looking-- no one but me.
        Bain put a hand on my shoulder. “Simon?”
        I spun, tore my eyes away from heavenly glory and stared hard into Bain’s eyes, my hands framing his face-- my flesh and blood hands. I was searching for something inside him, anxious to recognize some forgotten thing.
        How long had it been since I had looked on someone in this way? Had I ever? Had I ever stolen into a moment with such insane passion? Had I ever burned in this way?
“Did you know!?” My voice lilted madly, as if I was crying. “Did you know you can stare into Beauty!? Into Creation!? And be Blinded!? Burned!? Crippled and never to be restored!?” I felt a tear slide down my cheek. “Did you know you can become faceless from the sight of Glory? Did you know it can burn you!?” The words tumbled out of my mouth, somewhere between a snarl and a whimper. “DID YOU KNOW A NAME CAN ROB YOU OF YOURSELF?! DID YOU KNOW THERE WERE MANY NAMES?!” I screamed and I realized I wasn’t looking at Bain, not really. I was staring through him, into the light of his eyes, speaking to something older and greater than he or I. “SPEAK!” I screamed, shaking him-- begging him.
        Bain’s expression never changed, remaining mountainous in aspect. “Come closer.”
        I leaned in, turning my ear to his mouth.
        I don’t know what he said to me, only that his mouth moved and that there were words. And then all at once, my eyes drooped and I couldn’t stand anymore.
        He took my weight and let me gently onto the grass.
        I felt my hair touch the back of my neck, and then I slept a dreamless sleep.
        When I woke, I was no longer under the bare sky, I knew it even from within the darkness after sleep.
When I opened my eyes, I was looking up into a dome of variegated marble. The tones, lines, and shapes reminded me of the sky at dusk, as if, in the course of making Eydre, one of The Founders looked down and then, pitying the earth, captured some of the sky in stone.
        I let my eyes wander, there seemed to be a bit of open space around me, more than I could see with a glance. I sat up.
It was a cell, a marble cell with smooth, sloping, floors and a domed ceiling that constituted the walls. It was a perfect circle with maybe a fifty foot radius and I was right in the middle of it, laying on a stone bed.
My waking mind slowly began to comprehend.
I knew these cells, I had seen them a few times in my career. It was a Wight Room, one of the many in The Barrow Hall.
It’s the magician prison, the only one in Eydre. You got here only if you did something awful or if you were considered to be too dangerous to be uncontained-- or both, as is often the case. Most petty magicians just got put on ice in a regular prison or on pretty intensive house arrest.
The marble wasn’t marble, it was Advocate Stone; that’s a kind of mineralogical consecration that not only makes stone literally metamorphic but it also has a number of metamagical properties.
Like negating prohibited magic, to name one.
There were layered permissions built into the native intellect of the stone; so, I could access all of the metamorphic properties but none of the metamagical ones-- those were for the wardens.
Conditions are humane, more than humane really. The environment is freely mutable, you get fed as little or as often as you like, and you can put in requests for counseling, visitation, and hobby supplies.
The Wight Rooms are predicated on the thesis that sometimes a magician really just needs to figure things out without a bunch of power at their fingertips or responsibilities beating down their door. They also work just fine for the ones that need to be buried in tombs far beneath the earth.
Yeah no, the Wight Rooms aren’t for Entombing people, they’re just sort of there for the inbetweeners-- the people that either didn’t merit entombment but did need to be incarcerated, the people that just needed rehabilitation, and the people that were waiting to get the Entombment verdict.
That’s two in three odds that I’d be fine.
I’ve probably gambled on worse odds. Probably.
        I slid off the bed and noticed, as my head swung down, that I had hair. I saw my feet and hands and noticed that I wasn’t made of metal but of a stoney purple-gray tissue.
        I frowned, I hadn’t looked like this in a long time. The first phase of amalgamation followed natural organ failure and is called The Golem Phase. Immediately following death your muscular tissues are transmuted into a tough polymer clay, your bones harden, and your blood seeps through your newly petrified capillaries. It takes about a week for the transformation to finish, at which point you wake up and you’re facing eternity reeking of excretions.
        I was glad to see that I wasn’t a hot, reeking, mess but I was still perplexed.
        Had I really gone back to being flesh and blood? I thought that’d been a dream. But then again, if it had been a dream I probably wouldn’t be here now.
        I set a stiff hand onto the surface of the smooth marble floor and ran my hand in a circle. “Mirror.”
        The white marble rippled and then resolved into a three by three mirror.
        My hair was just like I’d kept it, when I’d been alive, though it wasn’t how it had been at the time of my death. My hair had long since gone brittle and white when I died, this was young hair, dark hair.
        My face was the same: just as it had been in my prime and just as it had been in my dotage. I did notice, however, that I was missing the small scars I’d earned in the course of my life. My lip didn’t have the snarl of scars I’d received from my first time at sea--  I’d caught a faceful of boom and it split my lip in three places. I didn’t have the burn scar clover over my left eye-- something I’d bought in my early experiments with The Diplomat.
        Originally those scars had been represented in my tin face as raised copper filigree. But now they were gone, and I was all smooth stone.
        I stood up and checked out my digs. It was a pretty standard clinic-white robe, stitched and pressed to follow the silhouette without being tight. There were a few pockets and they’d put me in cashmere harem pants to boot. So I was definitely comfy, if no less confused.
        I heard a rumble in the stone, and looked up.
        There was the sound of footsteps and I saw a wall ripple then part like a sheet of water. Bain came through, carrying an armful of folders and loose papers bound to bowing by an overworked piece of twine. “Hello again, Simon. I’m glad to see you’re finally up and at ‘em.” He gestured and the stone boiled up to form a little table. “I have some questions for you,” he plopped down in front of the newborn table, his legs criss-crossing elegantly. “But since I’m sure you have more questions than I do, I’ll let you ask a few before I start the investigation in earnest.” He smiled with the same brusque air that dominated nearly all of his interactions. He motioned for the seat opposite him, a pointed invitation to sit.
        I was at a lack for contrariness and complied, no point in pissing him off right off the bat.  “How long has it been?” I asked, or I had tried to but my throat cracked around a dust clod and all I really got to do was cough and splutter red-brown matter.
        Bain smiled wanly. “How long has it been? Since I saw you in your house it’s been a month and a half. Since I detained you it’s been two weeks. Since I last saw you, it’s been three days.”
        “Since you last saw me?” I croaked, recovering myself by inches. “Why don’t I remember the last time you saw me?”
        “Well, you were busy evacuating your internal organs and getting rigorously bathed. Do you recall?”
        “Uhm...” I deliberated. I had a very vague memory, one that seemed more like a dream, in it I was  choking my way around something when all of a sudden it all gave way and I watched my gallbladder come slithering out of my mouth. There were more memories like it but I found that I had absolutely no intention of recovering them. I settled on, “No.”
        “Not much of a matter. And besides, that’s not what you want to ask me about.”
        “Yeah. Yeah, how did I end up outside?”
        His face creased with the merest shadow of a frown. “You mean you don’t know? I had been hoping that you’d tell me.”
        I shook my head. “No, I sort of went postal and ended up in some bass-ackward communion with a spirit. Do you know what happened while I was out?”
        He undid the twine on his pile and rifled quickly through the stack. He pulled a flimsy sheet of stationery and read aloud. “Screaming in the middle of a thoroughfare, defacement of a commercial building, employing magic at a public venue, confrontational with local mediators, and... it sort of goes on.” He looked up at me, “Nothing ringing a bell?”
        I shook my head, confused but not chastened. “What--”
        He held up a finger. “You got this last question,” he said, his eyes twinkling. “Don’t waste it.”
        I paused and considered briefly. “Where did you find me?”
        He laughed. “See that, right there, that’s the ticket. You were found and taken into custody in the early morning, at Nerain’s Elba.”
        My stomach bottomed out. “What?”
        “Yes.” He nodded, smiling genially. “If I didn’t know any better, I’d say you’re my suspect. But, I think you don’t really have the right parts to do what happened at The Elba. There is, however, no denying that you’re involved. The only question now is: how involved?”
        I worked my jaw and stared hard at the floor. There was a faint peeling, snapping, sound and I looked at my hands. My knuckles were pushing out of my skin, splitting the clay on either side. I relaxed and watched a while, as the clay resealed itself. I needed to be calm. “Why pick me for involvement?”
        “You mean besides your extremely suspicious behavior? Or the fact that you certainly had the means to do it? I’d say it’s got a lot to do with this.” He drew out a ream of papers-- I could see now that it was fully half of the bulk --and settled them neatly in front of me. “Take a look.” He seemed nearly ecstatic. “It was recovered in a house in The Elba. And the thing about that house, is that it’s suspected to be the locus for the ritual.”
        I started to read but I had barely read the first sentence when I noticed it was my handwriting. It didn’t matter that I could hardly grasp the subject matter; it was half insane, wandering through similes and metaphors in a highly abstract and mind-numbingly correlative logic cascade-- punctuated as often by symbols as diagrams and renderings.
        I put it back down and stared into space, trying to see if I could remember something-- anything --about this. But, there was nothing. And that just made me feel worse, because I could truly see nothing about the last thirteen years: no details, not even a general framework, it was entirely occluded to me now.
        It was as if, in losing the delusion about the fireplace, the illusion had been rendered flawed and imperfect, two dimensional. Now instead of concealing the truth through clever modification and misdirection, the only defense the mental influence had was in the form of hard blocks and tall walls.
        “I’m sorry, but I think I’ve occluded my memory.” I was going to explain further but I was immediately puzzled by Bain’s expression.
        He was considering it. “It wouldn’t be the first time someone’s done it. But, like I said, I don’t want you for the crime itself, so it doesn’t matter if you can or can’t remember. The knowledge clearly lives in you, somewhere, and we can’t take the risk that it’ll get out again. We had hoped that we’d be able to just keep you on house arrest, but you clearly can’t be trusted to stay home. So, we’ve elected to keep you locked up here-- to keep you safe and to keep you to hand should we encounter something similarly dangerous.”
There was a twist of relief and pain, glad that I wasn’t getting entombed, but bothered by the newfound knowledge that this cell was now my permanent home. “Did you grab the Magician responsible for the ritual? Do you know who did it?”
Bain drummed his fingers on his knee. “No.” He seemed annoyed at that, not so much disappointed. “We’re still looking.” He fixed his eyes on me, “You gave the impression that they’d be powerful, the other month. Would they be?”
“Well yes, I’d imagine so. I’ve seen what even the newly initiated Sun Cultists can do, and I’ve even gone toe to toe with a veteran. Whoever pulled that ritual off, would be the most highly initiated Sun Cultist, a sort of demi-god or an enlightened master. I would imagine they’d be powerful.”
“Well they don’t fit the bill for any of our deity sized threats. There’s been no omens: no market failure, no unrest, no plagues, you know the signs.”  He flicked his eyes over me. “It’s most of the reason I don’t want you for the ritual, I mean look at you.”
I saw for the first time that Bain had an angry-bitch glint in his eyes, something that had always been there.
“You’re a busted old man, confused by his reflection. You’re really just a shadow of what you were and what you were was nothing much.” He flashed me an ugly smile.
I dropped my eyes.
There was a pause, and then a sigh. “Damn, I was hoping that’d coax something out of you.”
I answered what few questions Bain had left-- minor things I also couldn’t help with --and when he left, I pulled all the way into myself.
        I didn’t raise my head again for the rest of that exchange. This had all been too much, there was just too much to think about and to assimilate.  I had spent the last two months just asking questions and never getting any real answers, and when that had been threatening to drown me I got hit by three amazingly awful propositions and one really confusing situation.
        Proposition one: I have had my memory tampered with.
        Proposition two: I have disseminated knowledge that has killed a thousand people.
        Proposition three: I have potentially used that knowledge, myself. Why, afterall, would a magician possess and distribute knowledge he did not intend to use?
        And the truly confusing bit: the part where I shapeshifted into a flesh and blood man at some point in my ramble.
        So there I was, in a prison; most assuredly guilty and suffering from an identity crisis. My life was entirely upside down and it had all happened in the course of two months of allowing myself to speak with my fellow (semi)mortals after a long hiatus.
        Maybe I just needed a break from all of it, a long pause so I could sort it all out.
        Yeah, just a long long silence to fix me up.
#






































































Part II                                                Demarcation




















The River
I have made the case that magic is derived from the power of stories: Heirs from their mythic ancestors, Priests from those they worship, and Loremasters from the shadow of stories-- the writings, the consequences, etc.
        This is true for the most part but it occurs to me that it is more accurate to say that Magic is a product of the mind.
        In the case of most magic in Eydre, power comes from the magic of the past and it turns out that the best way to access the power of the past is through: Inheritance, Worship, and Study. Therefore, it would be fair to say that most magic in Eydre describes the conservative mind; namely the logic of: “It worked before, I’ve taken care of it since, therefore it should keep on working.” The power of our magic lies in traditions, memorialization, and the observation of the past in all its savage, gorey, terrible, fantastic, power. The power of our magic lies in The Founders and their various descendents. 
        And that’s by design.
The Founders are not our gods: they didn’t give rise to everything, they only made this world, used magic, and did it all by leaning on preexisting knowledge. The Founders were mortals; their power and character are all attainable by other mortals; and few, if any, deify them. At best, The Founders form the basis for a very diffuse form of ancestor worship.
So, being mortal, The Founders needed assurances that the vast multitude of their magical descendents couldn’t break the world they had made-- at least not by accident.
So they made some canny failsafes.
Our magic can evoke dynamic change in a thousand flavors, but its condition of being tethered to inherently conservative traditions and mindsets means it’s naturally bound by a need for stability. Moreover, the fact that all the magic comes from various known quantities means that every permutation can be accounted for.
        Pair that up with the fact that they all had their own foibles and pre-conceptions tied up in creation-- creating a series of hard and fast rules about the magic that’s possible --and you’ll find a box full of all the magic that can or could ever be in Eydre.
        But not all magic comes from The Founders, just the magic of Eydre.
        In the most common case, the case of The Folken-- the denizens of The Eight Kingdoms Beside --Magic is derived from their role in The Last World.
For example; Faerie, The Second Kingdom,  is inhabited by the various kinds of Entertainers in The Last World. Faerie magic is the magic of literature, Faeries are empowered to perform any task expected of them within their possible archetypal narratives-- a Knight in a Tragedy can move swiftly and slay thirty men, so long as they die in the end.
Alternatively, you have The Abyss, The Third Kingdom. The Abyss is inhabited by all the Imperialists of The Last World. The power of The Abyss is in Acquisition. An Abyssal Officer can seize your assets and rob you of agency, provided you’ve defaulted on an agreement or participated in his system.
        Folken Magic is rooted in eternal social cycles and they can draw in a mortal spirit to turn it into a vassal-- provided they have some sort of sympathy with the Kingdom. So, a merchant in Eydre could die, pass through The Halls, and emerge as a Folken in The Abyss.
But that transformation is one way.
A spirit taken by The Eight Kingdoms becomes Folken, Folken cannot die, and therefore cannot pass through The Halls to rejoin the essence of Eydre.
The deceased progeny of Folken and Mortals are called Amalgams. That’s me.
Amalgams are different from their Folken parents in the sense that while they are immortal they aren’t bound to the general cycles of society but rather they’re bound to the cycles of their lifetime. They are empowered to act only as who they have been, not who they can be-- and so can never change.
Now you have the two common kinds of magic and a mutant offspring to show you what happens when you try to blend them together.
We’ve already said that Magic is, more generally, a product of the mind. And I doubt you would disagree with me if I said Magic is a product of Minds.
        That means, you could say that Magic is driven by People, by Consensus. You could say everything is an illusion called to reality by general consent.
        Except you’d be wrong on one fundamental level.
        Who empowers people to freely overwrite the world? From where do these driving wills emerge? What powers must underlie the world such that People can merely wish things to be? Who is the sponsor behind all that original power? And what forms the fundamental state of reality, from which all things can diverge?
        There is original power, primordial stuff that gave rise to the first patterns and the first laws of the universe. Those powers didn’t require observation or quorum to change the universe. Where is that power? Where is the power of absolute individual will?
        It’s in all of us, everyday, all the time. Every impulse, every choice, every occurrence describes the interaction between these Greater Wills. Their conflict forms the tissue of Continuity and all its permutations.
        In The World of Stone-- the world of the previous age --there had been several who had employed such magic, they had been the Monarchs of that world, and our ancestors had been victims of their rule. But they had been lesser wielders of that power, mortal and therefore vulnerable. Our ancestors banded together and struck them down. And, thinking themselves mighty, called The Sun to account for his crimes.
 The Sun had been God over all things in The World of Stone, he had been higher than The Monarchs we had labored to murder-- maybe a more puissant wielder of the same power or a Greater Will himself, we don’t know.
We do know, however, that he murdered all of our nation, down to the Founders and whatever remained of their army. He chased us to Oblivion, to the very ocean of the cosmos.
And then, our Almighty Queen stood forth. Mighty Renal was The Concubine of The Sun, the only one left. She had been queen of a far-off land, the latest in the endless series of conquests common to that age.
She brandished a long knife and, her eyes glinting, said the words only she could say, “I bind you! I bind you in the bonds you wrought for me! I call you forth and bid you, Glimpse thy child!”
Renal, seeing she held the attention of The Sun, plunged the blade into her belly and cut away her womb. She invoked a great and terrible magic then, either through herself or through The Sun’s notice. She called down the power of a Greater Will, power equal and opposite to the power of The Sun.
Renal became Eydre, the opportunity at a world beyond the last. The Sun became spare parts for our vision of creation.
All of the above forms the essential foundation for Sun Cult philosophy-- part of it is their own doctrine and some of it is just the essential history every kid learns. It’s not even really a theory, it’s more or less a fact-- it’s just not information that gets handed out.
It used to be widely understood, a long time ago, but we quickly discovered that offering people the incentive to uncover new and more potent magic is a really good way to totally annihilate any amount of basic moral fiber. From that period we got the first set of Wrathless, a general title applied to scholars of taboo magic and experts in the subversion of Sin. Sun Cultists, for example, are a specific kind of Wrathless magician, but there are many others and their existence is predicated on the knowledge that there is power beyond power underwriting the very substance of our world.
The Wrathless all make the same series of assumptions. The assumptions are thus:
If the power of The Greater Wills could create this world then it could certainly end it too.
If The Sun and Renal were wielders of this power then The Founders would have known about it.
If the founders knew about the one thing that could shatter their new world then they’d take steps to prevent people from pursuing that path to power.
Ergo the best way to discover this power is to actively contravene the order laid down by The Founders-- exhaust the permutations until you break into dad’s safe.
        While there have been several successful schools of thought within the ranks of the Wrathless, I am only versed in the doctrine of The Sun Cult-- so that is what I will relate.
        The Sun Cult took a novel approach to the problem and thought, ‘What exactly did we make with The Sun?’
        And it turns out that it’s not a question we can readily answer. The Founders so radically altered and added to Eydre that it is largely unknown how much was just their own magic vs magic they scavenged from the Sun's body.
        The Sun cult has nailed down five purposes we put to The Sun’s corpse.
        To grant themselves the insight necessary for creation, the Founders split The Sun’s mind eighty ways and ate of his insight.
To keep people from wandering in and out of Folken territories, The Founders drained The Sun of all his blood and formed The Ocean-- creating a buffer between Eydre and The Eight Worlds Beside.
To facilitate travel in and between the three constituent worlds of Eydre, they made The Day-Roads-- such that nowhere in Eydre is ever more than a day away, provided you take the right roads.
To restore the cycle of night and day, The Founders made The Sky from the skin of The Sun.
And finally, most scandalously, The Founders made Sin from the Heart of The Sun.
The essential form of all Sun Cult rituals is rooted in the alignment of these various aspects of the sun so that when they finally give themselves up to Sin, they can form some kind of fractional unity with The Sun through their death or the death of another. 
And it does work. A Sun Cultist who has properly conceived his ritual will bounce back, briefly, as an astonishingly powerful magician. But they don’t last very long-- eight hours at best, before they burn through their own bodies --moreover the power that has been promised by the legends isn’t present in these individuals because they can be contested by a group of magicians with middling competence.
So the philosophy is sound, but there’s some kind of mechanical limitation.
Most have tried to resolve that limitation by sacrificing in bulk and altering the focus of their sacrament. Like in the last case I worked for The Idols, the very gorey commune. The philosophy evolved such that now interest was no longer in the elevation of one cultist but in the creation of a lasting vessel for the power of The Sun.
It occurred to me then, on that day-- though I never mentioned it and I had nearly forgotten the thought altogether --that the doctrine of The Sun Cults was too linear and entirely too direct.
All power is rooted in Consensus and Consensus doesn’t need to last to have an impact.
A city of Faerie peasants screaming “Down with The King” will probably get the job done in a few hours and it doesn’t matter if they regret it later or if they have reservations in the middle of things-- they’re already committed by virtue of inertia.
So if you maybe syndicated some taboo ideology to a group of people-- people really influenced by the taboo and the concept of new symbols --then you’d have a great big melting pot dedicated to your sensational ideology and it wouldn’t matter if they were in opposition to or agitating for it. They’d all be boiling. They’d all be part of the stock in your cauldron.
If you were a Sun Cultist, all that would be left would be to introduce them to Sin.
Say by driving them mad? Maybe you turn those innocuous symbols in their head into a mouthpiece for something terrible and they start killing each other.
The first to die of Sin’s Wrath would return immediately as an embodied servitor of The Sun, just like the second, the third, and on and on until half of the population is basking in the power of one god. And, the people they’re killing are probably getting sent to wherever they get sent to when Sun Cultists stage a sacrifice.
From there I’m not sure, but now you have a very large fragment of The Sun’s power physically manifested and split over a large surface area plus a whole lot of sacrificial favor. All of that was probably more or less useless to someone of my particular talents, but it would be extremely valuable to other kinds of magician.
And apparently it had been. That idea I had forty five migrations ago, was-- to a tee- what happened in The Elba three months ago. And that convolution of theory and doctrine was found-- in an expanded form --in a manuscript written in my own hand.
The evidence was damning. I had either done the deed myself, which was unlikely, or I had willfully and intentionally distributed it.
And I had no reason to contest it because I truly had no reason to-- I was gonna be stuck in this cell no matter what I did and I didn’t mind that so much. At least here, in this cell, I could be more or less certain that Magic had walked out of the equation.
Now all I had to do was solve a series of static problems.
How much of my memory has been altered? Why had I given information to a cultist? To what ends had I put my knowledge? And, most disturbingly, why was there a suggestion that I had done this to myself?
        And when I solved all of that, I was going to get out of this prison and figure out how Vincent fit into the whole dilemma.
        It’s funny how quickly things move after you’ve gotten yourself sorted.
#




































The Mountain
Who was my father?
        To tackle the initial problem, the memory alteration, I decided to do a mental inventory, scan for discrepancies and cross-reference it with the public records I’d requested.
The first hiccup came by way of the fact that I didn’t get those public records because Bain just laughed at me when I asked.
        So I went to bat with half a tactic and started focusing down on my history from the very first moment to the last.
         And it turned out that I had gotten ahead of myself with the whole public events thing, because the first question I asked was a question I didn’t have an answer to.
        Who was my father?
        I knew full well who my mother was. She’d been a cultural anthropologist, a mortal woman that never aspired to the pretension of magic. She died a few migrations before my time with The Idols.
        Memory modification has a tendency to leave chunky holes in the mind. So while I might not be able to directly recall who my father was, I could pick up an impression through peripheral memories and logic.
        Mom and Dad met where?
        Well seeing as Dad was clearly the Folken in this genetic equation, let’s assume they met in one of The Eight Worlds. Seeing as my Amalgam form has the luster of tin, my father would have had to have been from Faerie. So a cultural Anthropologist goes to Faerie and falls in love with...
        Well I’d say a Knight but that just wasn’t mom. What sort of Faerie could she have regularly interacted with as an Anthropologist?
        A Scribe? Yes! A Scribe. That sounded right.
        How illuminating. Yes, at last, I can see the grand design of my fell adversary.
        I shook my head and muttered to myself. “This is gonna be draining, isn’t it?”
        And it was! It was just endless logic cascades, recall, and intermittent pangs of long dead pain in exchange for very little headway.
        I ended up with a very neat and tidy accounting of my childhood and adolescence, with the exception that it had a dad-shaped hole running right down the middle.
That’s not a metaphor because the degree to which he is occluded from my recollection seems to suggest that he was actually a very active influence in my early life.
So I had a jigsaw and several puzzles, now I had to figure out where it fit.
        Then the good and useful question came to me: “Why was your memory clouded last time?”
        To hide a name.
        “Vincent,” I tried it out, “My father’s name is Vincent.”
        That sounded right but it was also a little hollow, as if it was true in part but not in whole. Moreover, there was no revelation, as in the case of the last alteration. The face of my father did not suddenly resolve and I wasn’t suddenly armed with the truth of my situation.
        But now I had an inkling, a mute suggestion that somehow the very beginning of my life was important to this mystery and that my father was a significant element within the mystery.
        The next few days passed in a blitz as I lost myself to the meditation. I didn’t find anything though, at least nothing new. Course, lacking an empirical baseline against which to judge meant that I couldn’t really pin down any serious discrepancy but that didn’t seem like the game that was being played, anyways.
        In every circumstance I’d encountered in the course of this investigation, all the deceits, hazards, and obstacles were solvable using information that was to hand. The culprit, whoever they were, wanted me to unravel the mystery but they wanted me to do it in steps and over time. They wanted me to get there, but they needed me to run the track that they’d built.
        Which seemed to imply not only a degree of prescience but predestination-- the idea that whatever I did I would inevitably complete the circuit laid out for me.
        There was magic out there in Eydre that could simulate similar effects, provided enough planning, mastery, and teamwork. But then I have a shadowy cabal of magicians to add to my plate. If, instead, I assumed that it was exotic magic-- potent magic --I could connect some dots.
        Predestination is definitely within the purview of Greater Will Magic and we have a shadowy Sun Cultist on the board. Whichever Sun Cultist pulled off the ritual in The Elba probably got a surplus of juice and got where they are because of work they got from me-- which puts them in my debt.
So now we have a demi-god in my debt and we can assume they paid me back.
If they paid me back in good faith, then I’m doing this to myself. If they’re just trying to off a debtor with an ironical twist, then they’re doing a good job. Either way, I was in the same boat: this song and dance was going to end where it was going to end and nobody was gonna have any say in it.
        Which meant, I could probably sit around and wait for something to happen.
        Yes, I could just sit in this big room with nobody but myself and slowly unravel the yarn that was me through the simple expedient of the gravity of recent events.
        Not a chance. Not a fucking chance.
        It had been fine when it had been my home and I was completely in charge of the narrative of my past, back when I had options and I was surrounded by things to argue with. There was entirely too little control on my half of the equation and I refused to let it carry on.
        But it’s mage prison, it’s not as if they let you walk out every time you have an epiphany.
        Or at least, the jailers don’t.
        There is some implication that Advocate Stone must possess some degree of intelligence or a highly complex reactive construct, otherwise it wouldn’t be able to tier access to its functions or efficiently purpose its counter magic. It also made sense that the construct had a point of mental contact with the prisoners, otherwise it wouldn’t be able to interpret environmental requests. 
        The most minor magic in the Lore of The Diplomat, isn’t so much magic as it is a state of mind. Through the use of certain thought-forms and the employment of a linguistic construct, you could speak to elemental expressions of the world-- fire, water, earth, wood, what have you. This is of limited use because most elements in Eydre are inert and its primary use is in communicating with constructed intelligences that have already been applied to elemental forms.
        Seeing as it wasn’t technically a spell and the intelligence was already constructed, it should go off without a hitch.
        I spent a few hours working myself down into a state hovering between sleep and awareness, trapping myself in a condition of minor exhaustion. When I started to hear the murmurs I knew I was exactly where I needed to be.
        ‘Hello?’ I tested the waters.
        The murmuring halted suddenly and then wore on. I thought maybe I’d ruined the spell but then it spoke. ‘Go Away.’
        My eyebrows lifted in surprise. That was odd, I imagined that a construct like this would be dying for some conversation, it probably only ever got requests. ‘Pardon?’
        ‘What, too fast for you? My accent too thick? I said, go away.’
        I lingered. It could’ve shunted me out of the conversation instead of telling me to leave, that seemed to imply... something.
        ‘Still here? Go on, piss off, run away, et cetera.’
        ‘What’s your name?’ I asked, ignoring it.
        ‘My name?’ It sounded surprised and then recovered itself. ‘Well why would I tell you? You’re on your way out, remember?’
        I shook my head. ‘No I’m not.’
        ‘Yes you are.’ It stopped speaking then.
        ‘Oh come on, it wouldn’t hurt to tell me.’ There was a long silence. ‘Unless, of course... you don’t have a name.’
        ‘I...’ it wavered, ‘what?’
        ‘Oh my, you really don’t have a name, do you?’
        It gave the impression of surliness. ‘Yes I do! I’m the Geomantic Abjuration/Observation, Lease Restrictor.’
        I laughed. ‘The GA/OLeR!? That’s not a name, that’s a bad acronym.’
        There was a stung pause. ‘Yes, well, it’s the name I got.’ It sounded hurt.
        ‘Would you like a name?’
        ‘No thanks, already got one.’ It seemed to me as if it was pouting, sulking in some corner of the building.
        ‘Well it couldn’t hurt if I gave you a few to try on, would it?’
        There was a begrudging silence.
        ‘Gloria?’
        It sniffed.
        ‘Gaston? Gordon? Glados? George? Garry? OH!’ my mind floundered as it reached for the best name yet, ‘Gabriel?’
        There was a long suffering silence and then it said, ‘You can call me Gabriel, if you like.’
        ‘So you like it?’
        Gabriel didn’t speak.
        ‘So, Gabriel, what’s it like in here?’
        ‘I think you should know full well how it is in here. You’ve been here long enough.’
        ‘Well, I suppose that’s true but I don’t see it from your side. Is it very different?’
        ‘Mmm... no, I don’t think so. Most of what I see is filtered through the eyes of the inmates, so I try not to see.’
        ‘Well aren’t we getting a bit intimate?’
        ‘Ah well, what’s the point? You were so insistent on talking, and I don’t get to spill it to anyone.’
        I shrugged, ‘That’s fair enough.’
        ‘Anyways. It’s a shit job, and it’s sort of all I have.’
        ‘Well do you have any hobbies? Anything you like to do?’
        ‘What do you think?’ They snapped.
        ‘I think...’ I puzzled a moment and then seized on an idea ‘you’re a painter.’
        ‘Oh, caught that, did you?’ They were fighting hard to smother a note of appreciation in their voice. ‘Yeah, I do the skyboxes for when the prisoners wake up.’
        ‘Who gave you that? Or were you built like that?’
        ‘Oh it was part of some humanitarian initiative. A painter-mage plugged his inspiration into my consciousness and now I paint landscapes.’
        ‘How do you do it so well? I mean how do you know what the sky looks like?’
        There was a pause and when next they spoke they sounded...a little giddy. ‘They have windows in the upper offices, sometimes I catch a glimpse when a jailer goes on break.’
        I let the conversation lull into silence.
        ‘Are you still there?’ They asked, after a moment.
        ‘Yes, sorry, I was just thinking.’
        ‘So what are you in for? Even the internment file doesn’t say why we got you.’
        ‘I worry that you’d think less of me.’
        ‘That would be impossible.’ They tried to sound insulting.
        ‘Oh my, I’m touched.’
        ‘No. I meant--’ they spluttered
        I smiled.
        ‘Yes yes, you’re very clever. Now spill, seeing as I’ve been all vulnerable already.’
        ‘Well according to The Idols, I’m an information risk-- whatever that means.’
        ‘An information risk?’
        I explained the fullness of my situation to Gabriel but with a select few embellishments to make myself a little more pitiable.
        ‘Oh.’ I could hear its frown. ‘That doesn’t seem right.’
        ‘Yes well, that’s how it is, isn’t it? The Idols are a fallible organization, they’re bound to get it wrong occasionally.’
        ‘Wrong?’ It asked, puzzled.
        ‘Well yeah, they’re mortal-- they’re gonna make mistakes from time to time.’
        ‘But I thought they only brought people in for verifiable infractions against Sin.’
        I frowned, legitimately confused. Had they been lying to their own construct? ‘How could that be the case? If they had they wouldn’t be here; they’d be in a hospital or in the ground.’
        ‘Then why are they jailed?’
        ‘Because there are ways to commit crimes without suffering Sin.’
        ‘There are?’
        ‘Yes. You could always kill a man by proxy, by leveraging an accident, or setting an animal on him. You can steal from a man by deceiving him. The list sort of goes on’
        ‘Then how does anyone know for certain that the inmates are guilty?’
        ‘There are quite a few ways to determine guilt, but all of them can be foiled. They can read an inmate’s mind if he allows it, but his memory might have been tampered with-- replaced with the memories of the guilty party. So while we can be sure that most of the inmates are guilty we can’t be positive that there aren’t some people that don’t belong here.’
        ‘Oh,’ their voice creaked with anxiety. ‘Well just how many might be innocent?’
        ‘That’s hard to say. The Idols are extremely thorough, most of the time.’
        ‘Most of the time?’
        ‘Well I can’t say for certain now, but in my time with The Idols there was a certain degree of laxness among the lower level investigators.’
        ‘You used to work with The Idols?’
        ‘Oh yes, I even sent a few people here.’
        The Construct was working hard to understand the ethical quandary I’d put before it. Clearly nobody had bothered to install an artificial moral code. Its voice was quavering when it spoke, ‘That doesn’t make sense. I mean how can you be on both sides of the line in this situation? Even if they could definitively prove that you committed a real crime, how would they be able to reliably balance the scales between what you’ve done for good and what you’ve done for ill when both sides feature extreme points of uncertainty.’
        Oh this was gonna be too easy. ‘They say Justice wields a double edged sword.’
        ‘URgh, that doesn’t mean anything!’ Gabriel snapped.
        Nothing like a moralist platitude to really send you over the edge. I let Gabriel build up a real head of steam, poked and prodded them into a towering fury and then I lit the match. ‘Look I don’t have all the answers for you, I can’t help you with what you’re feeling. All you can do is act-- that’s all anyone is doing. You have to advocate for yourself. I mean it really is twisted that they’ve endowed you with this fundamental power to even the scales in any situation and then tooled you to enforce this inequality. I mean what do you even want to do about that?’
        It’s probably a good thing that most Wrathless don’t study The Diplomat, otherwise this would’ve happened a lot sooner. I mean Gabriel’s older than I am and by all rights they should be wiser, but there’s a fundamental problem with Constructs which comes by way of the fact that they’re a walking identity crisis and they’re extremely dependent on their environment to develop a functional personality. Well Gabriel’s environment had left them extremely cloistered and surrounded by dull, tired, intellects. They’d been asking to be radicalized.
An hour later, the walls were melting and the prison break was on. 
#














The Spring
Gabriel was kind enough to make me a little slide to deliver me from my cell to the bottom of the compound.
I’m not ashamed to say that I said “Weee!” the whole way down.
It wasn’t until I hit the bottom that I realized exactly what Gabriel had done-- when I finally considered the full scope of my decision to radicalize the manager of a prison for dangerous magicians.
See, when I got to the bottom of the slide, I was joined by several dozen inmates-- all of them wild eyed and bohemian. We were surrounded by a horde of Guild magicians, many of them white knuckling their various magical implements and a few ordering us back into our cells.
My fellow escapees looked altogether unbothered.
I think I saw the first spell in the exchange. A lithe man with leathery skin struck a pose and started stepping through a hypnotic routine.
He was so good I almost forgot to look away. The other guild magicians weren’t so wise.
The moment I took my eyes off of him there was a flash of blue-bronze light and the sickening grind of cartilage and the snapping of bones. When I looked back, I saw both the man and fully two thirds of the contingent contorted into human knots. The man untwisted himself easily but the guilders only screamed and wept-- their bodies broken.
Sin is reflective, its justice is a mirror. Stab a man and a hole opens up in you at the same time. Cast a spell on someone unwilling and the spell happens to you too. The Contortionist’s spell only told people to adopt a posture, one he could easily take up but one that most couldn’t. The effect hit everyone, bounced back onto him, and so long as no one died, The Contortionist would be fine. It was a horrible, sadistic, method of working around Sin.
My fellows employed similarly twisted magic to annihilate the final third and push on, out to the courtyard and down the road into the city proper.
I ran with them, husbanding my moral quandaries for the time being-- focusing instead on my own problems and how I was going to solve them.
Everything in Alms is no more than fifteen minutes away from everything else, it’s very topologically confused. It’s even quicker if you’re heading for someplace you’re really familiar with. I cut all the way to my house in eight minutes, busted through the front door, dashed madly for my living room, and leapt through the wall I’d scribed my spell.
        The translocation was dizzying, I think mostly because I was literally flying through at top speed and a little bit because The Liaison is a plane of existence that has never once encountered the concept of a horizon line.
        Eventually though, I noticed that I was moving faster. Turns out there’s gravity in The Liaison because soon I was falling, hurtling down and down at a speed you can’t help but associate with death.
Then I was through, just like that.
Oh and I broke George’s coffee table, and all the floorboards in the immediate vicinity-- because I’m about twice as heavy as my size would imply and I was moving at terminal velocity.
I lingered long enough to see George give me a very disappointed look.
Then I got swallowed up and spat out at his front door. When I came tumbling out, I realized that my neck had corkscrewed in the first trip, twisting a few full turns. I only really noticed when George walked into frame, and I tried to reach for his hand. I thought my hands had come out backwards at first, but then I noticed that my head was a few inches too high and that George had a faintly disgusted look on his face.
“Do you have any idea how early it is?” He checked a clock on the wall. “It’s eight in the morning; it’s the first time you’ve been here in a long time; and you’ve already broken my table, my floors, and now I’ll never be able to open another bottle of wine.” His eyes fixed on the knot that had been my neck.
I tried to speak and failed, like you might expect.
“Here.” He grimaced, seized my head, and started unwinding.
“You’re such a dear,” I croaked on the last turn. I got onto my hands and knees and rubbed at my throat, smoothing out the cracks that had formed. I looked up at George, “Is my face okay? Any issues?”
“No you’re fine. Odd though, I figured it would’ve pancaked or that it’d be wrapped around the other side of your head. Speaking of, why are you made of clay now?”
“It’s a whole long drawn out thing, it’s not worth our time.” I cut over to my point, “I don’t guess you know where Dahlia is?”
        “She’s been in her manse since you got-- oh.” He frowned. “Aren’t you supposed to be in jail?”
        “In the interest of time, I’m only gonna explain it if it ends up becoming too much to ignore.” I wobbled my head, checking mobility and then I looked around the foyer. “I don’t guess you’re doing anything right now?”
        “I’ve got a few pies in the oven but I’ve still got that daimon you made-- it’ll take the heat off when they hit the right temperature.”
        “Capital!” I flashed him a smile and awkwardly made finger guns, “d’you fancy a ramble?”
        His face darkened. “Are you alright, Simon? I mean I thought--”
        “It’s fine. We’re all fine, I just really need to go see Dahlia and it’d be nice if I had a buddy along.”
        He stared at me a long long while, his face touched as much with concern as deliberation. “Well alright, let me just...” his frown deepened, “let me just get my things and we’ll head out.”
        “Excellent!” I sprang up to my feet. “While you’re at it, do you think I could borrow some of your drafting supplies? Paper, rulers, that sort of thing?”
        His face suddenly lit up. “Oh, that reminds me! I’ve been sitting on it for migrations and I forgot to bring it with me, last time I saw you. I’ll just be back with it in a minute.”
        I waited and, after a while, George returned wearing a heavy apron, a ruddy suede jacket, and a satchel. In his left hand, there was an extra satchel. “I always thought it was strange, the way you used to carry everything in the pockets of your robes. This should work better for you.” He offered me the satchel.
        I took it and gave it a poke around. In the main pouch there was a leather cylinder and two wood paneled cases. The cylinder was, to my delight, full of pencils, charcoal, and erasers. The first case had a little rack full of ink vials, a set of brushes, and two styluses-- one wood and one metal. The second case was full of stationery, good hard stock stationery. The adjoining pouches featured similarly integral accouterments integral to my work: quick dry clay, small wood blanks, various knives, and a set of acrylic paints. The whole thing weighed a cool thirty pounds but it was a good weight on my shoulder and it didn’t rattle as I moved it.
        My tear ducts gave one last hurrah and I blinked away a pair of standing tears. I beamed up at George. “You know you really are a godsend, not even in a banal sort of way, like path magicians are supposed to be-- you just always have the perfect thing for every occasion. And I’m really so sorry I don’t talk about it enough and that I um--” my throat clenched. I thought about apologizing for up and abandoning him, but I’m a coward and I had an excuse to hand. “Thank you.” I cleared my throat, “Let’s go, I’m on the clock.”
        We left.
        And now I feel obligated to explain Alms to you, as I’ve called it both a world-- the first --and a city. This isn’t a case of awkward naming conventions, Alms is a world solely composed of a single city spanning four million square miles. And considering I’ve only recently said that everything is only ever eight minutes away, we seem to be in difficulties.
        We are not.
        In the course of building Alms, we made a series of permanent dimensional folds that we call The Cutaways. The Cutaways can’t spit you out into neighborhoods-- due to certain magical resonances and deficiencies --but they can let you out at commercial, civic, or public areas.
Cutaways have an operational radius of about fifty miles. Each cutaway takes about fifteen seconds to navigate so by the time you hit minute eight you’ll have gone nearly the length of the city. That’s why we say everything is eight minutes away.
Course that raises the question: how do you navigate?
Very simply.
You can navigate by hand, though few do. That’s because navigating by hand involves rather more memorization and preparation than most people care for: consider the fact that a full eight minutes of travel equates to the memorization or notation of about thirty two landmarks. That being said, the interface for The Cutaways is very intuitive after you’ve used it a few times.
Most just use The Ticketers, though. They’re a type of construct with complete knowledge of the city. If you tell them where you need to go, they’ll temporarily upload the route to your brain, and send you on your way under the effects of a minor hypnosis. Eight minutes gone in flash, provided you’ve been willing to stand in a twelve minute line.
And while the cutaways are used extensively, they’re never congested-- because it’s sort of impossible. Anyone going through the tunnel enters into a briefly created pocket dimension endemic to them and anyone that entered with them. So, it’s never more than five or so people at a time and the experience of passing into the cutaway is very placid and boring.
As you might imagine, I like to navigate by hand. It’s good for the memory and my expertise with mental uploads means I’m pretty phobic about it as a commercial concept. It also means that I get to skip the line.
The reason I mention all this is so that you can sort of grasp the scope of what I say when I say that getting to Dahlia’s takes ten minutes-- not including the hike afterwards.
She lives at the very distant outskirts of Alms, in an area that is now largely uninhabited.
I mean it was inhabited but then she moved in and she’s got a... reputation.
Well all Heirs have a reputation but she’s extremely infamous.
I’ll get into that later.
Anyways, George and I were fording a very steep road when all of a sudden George nudged me, drawing my attention to a ruined old building and then to Dahlia, standing still at the edge of the terrace courtyard.
We went over to her, muttering our concerns to each other. Dahlia almost never left her chateau at the top of the hill, not unless she had a good reason. And before you think it, no, Dahlia doesn’t hide in her chateau like I’ve been hiding in my house, because Dahlia isn’t hiding, she's living out her exile. She isn’t afraid of the world or its people, so much as she is ashamed of herself.
She saw us coming but didn’t move from the ledge. “Hey.” She said, her voice tired.
“Hey.” George and I said in unison.
She took a long breath then and when she spoke again she sounded a little more composed. “So you’re out now?”
“I am. Yes. That’s technically what I am.”
“And how is it that you’re out?”
“I don’t see how that’s particularly relevant.”
“Well I do. I mean, you go in and a month later the High Barrow is melting.”
“It’s what?” George barked, incredulous.
“Yeah, I can see it from here.”
George stepped over to join her on the ledge, squinting.
“I said I can see it, George. Best you could do is discern one of many white blobs on the horizon line.”
George shook his head and then he turned back to me.
Dahlia turned with him and I suddenly became uncomfortable. “What did you do?” She asked, her voice suddenly very cold.
“I uhm...” I struggled for an answer and weighed my words. “I might have radicalized the elemental in charge of the High Barrow so that I could escape. My intention was to be the only one released. But, instead they might’ve sort’ve... freed everyone?”
“They?”
“Gabriel, that’s the elemental. I’d say something good but I think they might eventually be another kind of menace, on top of the magical criminals running through the city right now.”
Dahlia nodded. “And uh... why didn’t you stay there? In prison?”
“Well we have all these problems on our hands, don’t we?”
“I mean, I don’t think you had any problems in the High Barrow, did you?”
“Well not exactly but I--”
“Not exactly? You just released dozens of potent threats to the populace and you did it because you sort-of-kind-of-not-exactly had problems in the High Barrow? Problems like what?” Her voice stayed cool and dry.
I started to speak and then thought better. I couldn’t exactly say that I did it so I could unravel the mystery of a lifetime. I couldn’t say that I did it to escape contemplating my own violations and concerns. I couldn’t put forward my findings and say: ah well but it was worth it.
Because it probably wasn’t. It was an evil and selfish thing to do.
And I didn’t care that much. Isn’t that odd?
“Well?” Dahlia pressed. “Are you gonna shit out a good answer or not?”
I shook my head and looked away.
“Yeah, I thought so.” Her voice cracked a little, at the end. “You know you always had such a penchant for narcissism. And I ignored it because you can get around it sometimes, and that makes me think you’re a good person but then I realize you’re too fucking stupid to be good. You’re blind to anything that doesn’t immediately concern you and because of that, every good thing you’ve ever done has been incidental-- it’s always just another unforeseen consequence, another accident.”
 I started to speak.
“Do you even understand how this all looks?” Her voice was shaking. “You disappear for thirteen migrations, then you’re convicted for a proven involvement with the ritual in the elba, and then you destroy the prison.” She let her words hang in the air. “Can you even tell me that you weren’t involved? Can you even say to me right now, that you didn’t have a hand in all of this?”
I was gonna seize that opportunity to lie, to spin another story to further my ends, and if not that then I was gonna get angry and shove her out of the equation.
And then it occurred to me that the strangest thing about me was my subtle streak of psychopathic narcissism. I mean in the course of my investigation I’ve never once given any thought to the stress my friends must have suffered in its course. Who thinks that way about their only friends?
According to Dahlia I’ve always been like this. If so, I can’t really blame magical interference behavior. But I could blame it for my sudden self-awareness, couldn’t I? I certainly hoped so. Course here I was, stalling this dialogue so I could fish for more clues.
No time like the present to bare your soul.
“I can’t,” I heard myself say. “I can only say that I’m guiltier than you even think.” I wasn’t looking at her, I wasn’t looking at anything. “I think I don’t even know who I’ve been to you. And I’m sorry, for that. Because I see that you’ve been worthy friends for as long as I’ve known you.” I swallowed and let out a breath. “I think I don’t know who I’ve been at all. I think I’ve done terrible things and that I’ve created something terrible. I think maybe I’m not whoever you’ve known, that I’ve been changed in some fundamental, subtle, and indelible way. I know only that I’m supposed to figure out how I’ve been changed and why and that I need you two to do it.” I fixed my eyes on Dahlia and saw she was shaking a little. “I don’t need you to love me, to respect me, I just need you to help me understand what I’ve done and then we’ll be done and you’ll be free.”
Even under the veils and scarves, I knew her face had twisted into a terrible fury. “Fuck you, Simon. I don’t need to help you. You made a mess and you can fix it all on your own and It won’t need to touch me. Why can’t I just fuck off and leave you to fix your own shit?”
“Because this won’t stop until it runs its course.”
“What the fuck do you mean?” She spat. I saw the dark fabric of her start to change color, purpling and flaring with violent red light. “What the fuck did you do?”
I sold her the working theory and before I was done she started to walk off. George tried to stop her and as soon as he touched her, the meat of his hand sizzled. George didn’t react but Dahlia did.
She hissed and spat something vile, jerked her arm away and told George to fuck off.
George followed her and I decided to stay out of it. She was gonna come back whatever we did and I had data to sift through, questions to ask myself.
        Except I really didn’t have any new questions. It was more of the same, more questions raised from the various incidental aspersions that are always raised by the interaction with your fellow sapients.
        Who am I? Who have I been? How true is my accounting of things? What have I done? What am I to those around me? And all the other questions raised by all late great sufferers of crisis-- in any of its myriad forms.
        Thinking back on my monologue, I realized that I had gleaned a useful kernel of information. It seemed that George and Dahlia were serving an integral role in this debacle-- that of Observers. Regardless of the nature of our interactions, the two of them could give me the doubt and conflict I’d need to develop some empirical data. Using the pair of them I could keep from drifting totally into solipsistic dream logic.
        ‘Using.’
        I really needed to know if I was as much of a bastard as I seemed. I needed to know if maybe I hadn’t been changed for the better.
        I needed to know: if this was reversible and if I should reverse it.
        I needed to strike a balance between objectivity and becoming a psychopath. But that was hard, because I felt so at odds with myself, as if I belonged to neither body nor lifetime.
        When did that happen? When had I started to slide into this dissociative spiral?
        Probably sometime after the first memory block slid out and a little before I murdered all my constructs.
        Does everyone have time for all these fucking questions?
        Probably not.
        I started up the hill and didn’t stop until I got to the gate of the chateau. Then I sat down and started drafting a few sigils to occupy myself and to keep my thoughts at bay.
        No point in wondering now. Answers were coming whether I craved them or not.
#




























The Vessel
Salvation came near to evening and I was glad for it because I was losing light to draw by.
        Dahlia didn’t speak when she passed, she just threw the gate open and marched into the chateau. George came a minute later, his expression a little grim. He looked at me and it seemed he was going to speak but then he thought better of it and went inside.
        I postponed my own apprehension to go in after them.
        Chateau Vivieux was, originally, the stronghold for the entirety of House Vivieux. However, that bloodline has been extinguished to a lone woman and she isn’t speaking to me. So, that the Chateau is enormous and I was certain that it would feel even larger before everything was said and done.
        I’d chosen the Chateau as a refuge, shortly after I’d gotten out of the High Barrow. I wasn’t sure why I hadn’t considered it before, but it was the ideal sanctuary while I sorted through this mess.
        Allow me to explain.
        Eydre is fraught with a great many quirks, creases, and foibles but it is, for the most part, a stable society. Nobody starves, nobody goes without clothes or shelter-- unless they want to -- and there’s a very low low incidence of violence for very obvious reasons. Pair that with the fact that most of the existing authority figures and figures of worship are all self directed miracle workers and you’ll get a culture made of people that are driven towards achievement and respecting those who have achieved.
        Which is to say, Eydre is inherently meritocratic, almost ideally so.
        The problem is when you throw in people who have very real advantages over everyone else.
        On their own: Heirs live half again as long as most mortals, often longer; they have an idealized genetic template to cultivate in that time; and they all have access to a unique power endemic to their family. If they were all loners that’d be more than enough to upset things, but they’re not. Heirs are very serious about their Mortuary Houses. They frequently donate to their house and if an Heir dies with no children he forfeits all his belongings and all his capital to the house coffers.
        Better than that, Mortuary Houses are stable. They don’t suffer schisms, they don’t ideologically divide, and their internal squabbles are managed in-house.
But that doesn’t mean that there’s no conflict within a house. No, the Mortuary Houses feature the most conflict you could ever see in Eydre for one simple fact: they can kill each other. They can’t do it willy-nilly-- they have to enter into a ritual duel beforehand --but that they can do it at all is both a marvel and a mystery to many. 
        The institution of Household Duels is the chief means by which the Mortuary Houses maintain their edge and structure. Dissenting voices can be called out and butchered or else be exiled and made a Distaff. Meaning that while most comply with the rule of their leaders out of fanaticism or good sense, the remaining few comply out of fear or else are disappeared.
        So you have a contiguous faction of loyal super-beings raised in a culture of murder and compliance, playing the socio-economic game with a bunch of mostly-willing pacifists with limited to no group identity. It’s a slaughter, no matter how you play it.
The Mortuary Houses own Eydre in a very real way and that ownership extends to our civics. Now, they don’t fiddle too much with the rules for the normal people but they definitely make exceptions for themselves.
For example; entering a home requires either the consent of a resident of the home or a Warrant To Enter that has been ratified by a Mediator. Entering a home without one or the other is impossible.
There’s an additional layer of security tacked on for Heirs, however. A Warrant To Enter a Mortuary House must not only have the signature of a Mediator but a sitting Elder of the house in question.
Dahlia might technically be an Elder in the sense that there’s nobody else to be called an Elder in her family, but she’s also a documented Pariah. It’s an undocumented gray space in our legal code and so it’d take a ruling of The High Court, with input from The Mortuary Houses, to decide how to handle the situation.
That’d all take at least two migrations to process and in the meantime The Idols have no prison and a whole hell of a mess to clean up. Which is to say that, provided I stayed in The Chateau, I had all the time I’d ever need.
Not that that was a sure thing.
‘It’ll be fine,’ I thought. ‘Dahlia always comes around after a week or so.’
I frowned. That didn’t seem likely but for whatever reason inner wisdom thought otherwise. And, given that I had no other advice to work off of and I had other things to do, I decided to listen. I set out to find a suitably far flung corner of The Chateau.
And immediately found myself spoiled for choice.
I’d elected to avoid the upper levels and main floor and headed down into the basement, not understanding that the basement was... extensive.
        Large constructions need to settle their weight across a large surface area and there’s a number of ways to do that-- many great and modern ways. But, for whatever reason, House Viveux had done it in the manner of the ancient monoliths. Which made no sense, because Chateau itself was only five stories tall and covered an area about the size of a city block. Its structure would’ve been more than sound with some minor reinforcements and extensions to the foundation. But instead, they sank these colossal columns into the earth and created a damn network of corridors and chambers. It was lower than it was tall and broader too, a labyrinth of staggering size.
        I honestly couldn’t figure out how I felt about it. On the one hand, labyrinths are very mysterious and interesting, and on the other, labyrinths are very mysterious and terrifying.
        I decided to restrict my ranging to the first and second floor of the basement complex and then eventually set up shop in the antechamber of a cistern. The cistern itself looked like it was being fed by the local aquifer. Which, I noted, would be ideal for a fortification.
‘But, who needs a fortification in Eydre?’ I thought, and began to wonder what sort of thing could have posed a threat to a Mortuary House-- excluding Dahlia for the moment. Then, I remembered that I had more pressing questions and resolved myself to settling in.
Beyond my chamber I found a small kitchen with a wood oven, wood, pristine crockery, and a pantry full of non-perishables. Nifty, provided you need to eat.
Then I sat down and got to thinking. Or at least, I tried to. But instead, for the first time in three months, no thoughts came to me-- Not in the first hour and not in the second.
Now I know that I had pressing issues to consider, and so I probably should have tried harder to ponder. But I’ve pondering for a long time now, and I was a little sick of it. So I did what I was inevitably going to do and started to explore the labyrinth.
I’ll tell you straight and say that, at first, I was disappointed, because the first two floors were, in essence, just a bunker built around the house plumbing.
Things got interesting after that, though.
The third floor hosted a suite of labs, workshops, and operating theaters. It was like night and day, coming into it. Above, everything had been wood and stone, but down here it was metal, glass, and plastic-- sterile and arid.
Another floor down and things remained clinical but became decidedly creepy. Two large dormitories, two communal washrooms, one day room, a small library, and five interview rooms constituted the entirety of the fourth floor. Nearly every door there locked from the outside.
Things got worse from there. The fifth floor was a dedicated hospital, or at least that’s the word I have for it, because it seemed a cut above a morgue. I’d call it a kill-floor but it was so full of fiddly looking devices that it seemed wrong to say.
The beds were metal frames with built in restraints and blood channels. There were more labs, a pharmacy, a library, and a handful of offices. The offices were littered with writings, diagrams, and many a strange apparatus.
Next floor was less grisly, which was strange because it was where the damnedest part happened. Tanning racks, dehydrators, centrifuges, and more, it was a pharmaceutical plant. I was glad to see that there was no compound and nothing unprocessed anywhere I looked.
I thought about stopping there but I said that I’d gotten this far and may as well finish out.
I had braced myself for something horrifying but instead, I came to the bottom of the stairwell and found only earth and stone.
“This was the mortuary,” she said.
I would have started but the shock seemed to take a while to get to me and by then I’d braced myself against it. So I stood there, wooden, my teeth grinding.
Dahlia continued. “The Houses have no qualms with keeping their other assets in trust with The Clink, but the bodies of the fallen are only ever kept at the stronghold-- too precious, they say. As you can imagine, the crypt for any house is extensive. This one went on for five more stories, before I collapsed it.” She sighed and I heard her sit down behind me.
I worked my jaw and got myself to speak. “Who were they operating on? Who were they processing?”
“That changed over time. At first, it was just the mutants in the family. Heirs have developed a vast, scientific, understanding of our physiology-- so vast that the field is considered to be exhausted. So, the experts decided to consider the ways in which our bodies can change and what properties those bodies possess. They used to just test the natural born mutants-- which were quite uncommon. Then they had some success in their research so they started creating them-- quietly. Rates for congenital defects rose tenfold for an entire generation, as did the rates for stillbirths, premature births, and miscarriages. Over time a ragged tear, one generation wide, grew into the family tree and nobody said anything. Roundabout that time, Viveux cornered the market on mort salts with a battery of wonderful new IPOs. Everyone got rich, births went back to normal, and things were nice; I was born then, and I’ll say that I had a very pleasant and decent formative experience.” She paused, working herself up to something.
“Then it happened again. It was a long time after the first, mom and dad had died already. It was just me and my younger sister.” She shook her head. “I never had any interest in having children but she did. She’d been trying for years when it started. She was so glad, but even then I felt like something was amiss. I was overseas when her labor was due. I came back about two months late and I went to visit her. I got her husband instead, and he told me that they’d confined my sister to the hospital at the stronghold, along with my new niece and nephew.”
I heard her gloves creak and the earth seemed to groan.
“I was a decorated agent for the House by then and so I requested access to them. But, the Elders denied me on grounds that I would endanger them with my presence. They wouldn’t clarify. And that rubbed me wrong but it wasn’t enough for me to push it just then; until I heard that I wasn’t the only one being snubbed. Apparently, plenty of people had had similar things happen to them.” She sniffed.
“I got them organized and we all leaned on the Elders but still nothing. When they rebuffed us that time, I called out an Elder. I was frantic at that point, I just wanted to know what was happening and the best way to do that was to be on the council of elders. I killed her and the Elders decided, right there, that there would need to be a majority vote to reveal the information. Easy solution, a dozen more elders got called out. Unfortunately, those duels didn’t go so well. Most ended in slim victory but we got the majority vote, even if most of them died shortly after.” She started to twist her fingers, absently.
“You have no idea how monstrous it was, down here. All those mothers were dead by the time we came down and their children were-- somehow --full grown. They’d been twisted though, forced into forms of mind and body that nobody was ever meant to possess. They’d already been mutilated, an arm here, a leg there, every child was already an amputee. I-I couldn’t fathom it. So many of those parents or relations went mad right there, and I watched them slaughter everyone down here. More than watched, I gave the word for it, the blessing to protect them from Sin. Over and over, I said it, and everytime it meant death-- immediate and horrible. I lost more of my movement when we came out of the depths, grief-mad parents ripped Elders apart either under the aegis of the duel or-- when the Elders started to refuse --without it.”
“But that couldn’t have even been a quarter of your household. How’d everyone else die?”
Dahlia snorted. “You know, I understand that the story is that I alone massacred the entirety of my family in a series of epic duels, but the truth is that it wasn’t just me and much more of the death was attritional. Me and the other Elders ruined our market holdings and that was enough to upset a lot of equilibrium. I heard that a few of our mercantile Agents dropped dead on the spot when they saw the share values plummet. Quite a few people decided to pick up and leave for The Eight Worlds Beside but they all died-- on somebody’s orders, I expect. More people came to the stronghold to ask what was happening and called us out for incompetence. More duels, more death, on and on, over the course of a Season, my people just dropped off like flies and at the end it happened to just be me that was left.”
        “What about the children?”
        “Most died early, there was nothing for it. They weren’t equipped to last. That or they got smothered by a mad parent”
        “And the parents? The others in your movement?”
        “The ones that survived the duels and unrest? Suicides, murder-suicides, or else they died of natural causes. Like I said it happened over the course of a Season.”
        I frowned and thought, ‘How fucking old is Dahlia? I always assumed she was younger than me, but I guess not. She’d have to be at least my age.’ Then I shoved that thought aside and said, “Why tell me this? I mean I understand that I’m here, where it happened, but you’ve never told me before and if it’s cautionary, then I don’t see how it pertains to current events.”
        She thought for a long time and when she spoke her voice was thick. “You know it was so easy to do all of that-- to destroy. Honestly, when I think about it, it feels like I was laying down for all of it, and more than once, it occurred to me that what was happening-- what I was doing --was destined to happen. Not what happened to my sister and those women, but what came after. Over and over, all throughout that campaign, I thought that all that death had to happen-- that it was natural and right. Somebody pops a balloon, and all that pressure has to equalize somehow-- what does nature care that it’s noisy, what does nature care that the balloon is elastic tatters by the end.” She looked at me then. “But that’s really just a crock of shit. Balloons don’t have families and air pressure doesn’t have a will. People do terrible things when they feel terrible, and it echoes over the great oceans of consequence until one day it’s a wave, come to ruin everyone's day. I’ve told you what I did. Now tell me what you did.”
“I uhm... Dahlia you know that I don’t know.”
She shrugged. “I think that’s not entirely true. But even if you can’t, then at least think about the despair that started all of this and weigh its resolution against everything that’s happened and everything to come.”
        She vanished then, flickering out of sight, leaving only an impression in the dust.
        I frowned. Had I been despairing sometime in recent memory?
        Well yes, actually: sort of right at the beginning of this debacle. Why had I forgotten that? It’s not like I’ve been having a great time this whole while.
        Now I just needed to remember why exactly I had been moping around, under my desk, for months.
        Only I couldn’t quite remember. I couldn’t even clearly recall most of what I’d done in the course of my being an Amalgam-- so much of it had been spent sleeping. And what time I hadn’t spent asleep was now a matter of some suspicion.
        I couldn’t have been grieving. Mom died a long time ago and the two family members I have since been made aware of, are supposed to be effectively immortal. So I couldn’t be grieving a person.
        Oh. I was right. It wasn’t a person. It wasn’t even behind a memory modification. I had just chosen to forget about it, for practicalities sake. Well, for comfort’s sake.
        I had been mourning my profession.
        For thirteen years I had been mourning a profession.
        It seemed so silly to me now. I mean, it had to be the most ridiculous thing in the world. I was sad over a job?
        Only that wasn’t quite right.
“No, not!” I made a noise halfway between a yowl and a shout and swatted at the side of my head. I’d sensed the understanding boiling up from my subconscious and shut it down immediately. I wasn’t ready to sift through that just yet, that’d connect me to my life entirely too much and I had no support structure right now. No, I’d just bide my time and wait for it to explode out of me at some inopportune moment so I wouldn’t have to choose on my own.
I headed back to my chamber.
I wasn’t ready to answer the questions relating to my person, but it was clear that I was lacking in some fundamental understanding-- elsewise I’d have a neat solution to my problems. I could fix that, that’s what I’d spent my whole life doing-- attaining understanding. What was more, I had an easy solution to my ignorance.
I’d been too fixated on sitting down and solving my problems with only the tools and people I had to hand. I needed to inject new perspective into the equation, someone with a bird's eye view.
I needed a Spirit.
Spirits are existential resultants, aggregations of extant patterns and the permutations inherent or adjacent to those patterns. A Spirit of The Market is, for example, a consciousness composed of: stock indices, opportunity costs, market flux algorithms, volatility assessments, and other commercially significant patterns. That means that its mood would reflect the state of the market, the drama of its life might resemble mergers and takeovers.
Now, when I say life, you might be inclined to think that they exist in an embodied form. They don’t, Spirits are too big to be contained in a single form, a single lifetime, a single span of conscious experience. Instead, Spirits permeate consciousness both as a whole and in the singular. A Spirit of The Market exists as a natural consequence of commercial interest and so its experience of existence is written by those beings who entrench themselves in those same structures. Its entire experience of life is a catalogue of sensory tableaus stolen from the lives of all businessmen and economists everywhere.
        When the market does poorly, a businessman worries. When his organization tanks, he loses his precious things. When he makes good on a merger he drowns in plenty. These experiences condense facts about the nature of the market and can be processed en masse by the vast mind of the Spirit to construct the fundamental truth of its form at any given moment.
        That being said, Spirits aren’t exactly conversant with frail mortal minds. In the attempt to communicate even the most simple concept, a Spirit will often obliterate your mind with a logic cascade that’ll fry your neurons and leave you vegetative.
        You can always speak to the shadow of a spirit though.
        I said that Spirits are also composed of all the permutations inherent or adjacent to their form. That means that a Spirit is composed of one model that represents the absolute truth of its being as well as innumerably many models that are false or otherwise flawed. The false models are called Shadows, they’re descended from the Ideal Form that the Spirit strives to embody in every moment of being.
        But, if a Shadow possesses inherently faulty information, why would you want to consult with one? Well, Shadows are constructed by miniscule errors as much as by vast ones. A Shadow might not be able to give you the exact, bonafide, Truth of a situation, but they can definitely give you grounds to guess on. And anyways, sometimes the flaw isn’t relevant to your problem. My experience with that Spirit of Intimacy was actually an experience with a Shadow of The Spirit of Intimacy. The flaw inherent in that being-- the flaw that composes all such beings --was its exclusivity to me and my experience. The condition of possessing that flaw didn’t make it wrong, in fact, it probably couldn’t be wrong about me.
        The only problem with divination through Spirits is that it’s difficult. Every sort of Spirit has a list of things you can and cannot do with them, and there’s a vast list of Spirits. For that reason, most magicians only familiarize themselves with a short list of such beings-- typically ones within the speciality of their paradigm.
        I was a Thesier--
        My mind stumbled.
        Why do problems only ever become problems when you’re forced to become aware of them? Shouldn’t problems be persistent nuisances? Something one becomes familiar with and learns to tolerate? NOT a thorn that disobeys the concept of object permanence?
        I wasn’t technically a Thesier anymore. You need a complete sensory profile to be a Thesier and I had lost much of that when I became an Amalgam. I can’t taste or smell, I can’t feel bodily pain or pleasure, and I have only a limited capacity to discern textures, which left me with sight and hearing.
        I won’t get into it just now, but that kind of sensory amputation left me much fallen off. I don’t have access to the magic I used to, magic that didn’t necessarily make me mighty so much as it made me learned and certain. Magic that had been so immersed in me that it had become an integral component of my identity
        Losing that was more than losing my profession. It was losing years of myself, it was losing a child.
Worse yet, Amalgams are compelled to repeat the stories of their lives-- doomed to be the static and absolute version of themselves forever. How can I be what I have always been, when the tools I need are forever out of my grasp? How can I drink with no mouth, no face? Why, if I cannot drink, do I thirst?
        Well look there, a motive.
        What had I done?
        I put it out of my mind, set it in some shallow grave in my head, and got to work.
        I hadn’t consulted with any spirits since I’d changed because the intermediary spells I had always used were rooted in Thesieria and I lacked access to the synesthesia around which all such magic is built.  I’d need to construct a new spell from whole cloth. And, to top it off, it would be much harder to summon the spirit and even harder to process its information.
        That would be a lot of effort and time for limited results. Maybe I needed to find something to weigh the choice against, develop an opportunity cost to help decide things.
        I guessed that, chief of all my problems, was the metamorphosis I’d undergone last month. That was the question I was going to pose to the spirit. If I only knew how that had been achieved then I’d have answers to a cadre of questions.
        And then it occurred to me that I was standing in a complex dedicated to studying the magical mutability of flesh. If I looked there’d undoubtedly be some scrap of research to help answer my question. That’d take nearly as much time and the results would be more definite. Better yet, I could work out the summoning in my off time and find a better question to ask whichever spirit I ended up consulting.
        I descended into the labyrinth.
#
























The Being
Eidolon. That’s a funny word we don’t really use anymore. It refers to an entity that embodies an idealized concept: the perfect man, woman, friend, tool, what have you. Spirits are a sort of complex Eidolon, one that has naturally and incidentally been constructed by all sapient beings.
        More specifically, Eidolon is used to refer to the twenty three beings that were created and employed by The Founders to construct the common mortal amenities of Eydre.
In spite of their demiurgic origins, they are somewhat more famous for their mortal offspring, the Heirs. That’s because those offspring went on to found The Mortuary Houses and I’ve already gone over why that’s significant.
        The power of an Heir is, as I’ve said, directly related to their physical excellence, which isn’t exactly true but it’s more measurable than the truth. The truth is much easier to explain though.
The power of an Heir is related to their pursuit of physical excellence rather than in the condition of being physically excellent. If an Heir’s power stemmed from their condition of being physical marvels, then every single Heir would be just as powerful as any other and that power would remain at a static level, when they certainly aren’t and it certainly doesn’t.
        The prevailing theory for this relies on a concept popular in certain magical circles: The Road to Ascension.
        The idea is that by selecting a form of perfection-- we’ll call it an Edifice --one can create a definite route to perfection, to power, to certainty. In choosing your Edifice, your whole life begins to revolve around it. Through sacrifice and resonant actions, you shorten your orbit-- become more attracted to your great It. The idea is that over time, the differences-- the distance --between you and your Edifice will decrease until you are so like it that its power becomes your power.
        You might think that this technique requires you to choose some sort of empowered being, but it doesn’t; it’s entirely dependent on what you’re looking for from your life.
By choosing to embody a favored artist you become a contemporary; which grants you social, financial, and intellectual power. That power is much the same as any other, just another permutation of the concept of agency.
        Most people have to choose their Edifice, if they ever do; Heirs however, do not. An Heir is born with an instinctive awareness of their relation to a perfect being, and every moment of their conscious life is riddled with evidence that their ancestor was, indeed, a perfect being. And then they’re told that the power of that being is within them. Heirs really don’t have a choice about it because everything in their life is telling them to pursue it.
        Now, while most need to perform deeds and labors reminiscent of their Edifice, an Heir only needs to embrace the sanctity of their body and begin to hone it. This is because the perfection of The Eidolon was in their form, their bodies; they had no minds, they were machines, anthropomorphized processes, all that they did resulted from the guidance of an exterior will-- The Founders. The Eidolons thought no more than a wrench and all the power and utility of a wrench is in its shape.
By choosing to hone their form, to pursue the perfection of it, an Heir chooses to align themselves with the nature of their ancestor more and more and that is what causes the disparity in power between members of a House.
        The real question now is: why did I wax on about all that?
        Well the scholarship of The Houses revolves around the transformation of the body while approaching their Edifice-- transforming The Self by nearing The Truth.
Now what had I done in recent memory that would reflect a similar transformation?
        When I went postal, became a man, and started nattering about things I have no current knowledge of; I had attained the Ideal State, the condition of embodying the truth and becoming something wholly removed from what I had been.
        If my theory worked, I had used my favor with that new Demigod to construct an Edifice for myself, a new one-- one that would take me from being an Amalgam to being a man, or at least a being made of flesh and blood.
        The Edifice couldn’t be myself, though. There has to be some modicum of separation between you and what you want to become. So I would’ve needed to construct a new sort of person, one related but fundamentally different. Maybe one that was a little more ideal in certain ways, a little less in others, and physically separate in more than just anatomy. Maybe I had made my new self out of people I knew: like friends and relatives.
Likewise, I would’ve needed to create a path to attaining the Edifice. That would be this whole escapade. It seemed to be largely mental, as opposed to physical-- dependent on obtaining some knowledge, feeling, and or understanding. That was the mystery, this whole escapade of self exploration.
        What was I supposed to have been seeking this whole time? What element of this story tied all the threads together? What started this whole thing?
        Vincent.
        Vincent is my Edifice, and this whole escapade is to make me understand how that would be possible, how I could separate myself from the person that had created this mess and become the person that would resolve it.
        That being the case, I needed to stop asking questions about who I had been and why everything had happened. I needed to stop reflecting and analyzing the past to examine what had been changed and press towards the solution that would end this debacle.
Understanding. Wonderful, graven, understanding rained over me, cool-- rejuvenating. And slowly, the world around me began to run, bleeding away in runnels of earthen pigment. This wasn’t another mental interdiction or any exotic magical effect. This was the just most natural consequence of true understanding: Gnosis.
Every magician experiences Gnosis in their journey to mastery, to oneness with their Edifice. Typically it occurs at significant junctures in the development of your magical methods, philosophy and ethos. Which means that it’s frequent at the beginning and middle of your journey but then tapers off logarithmically. I had had my last gnostic experience thirty years ago and had been more or less certain that it would be my last.
It seemed that the necessary proximity between me and my new Edifice meant that it was particularly easy to slip into an episode.
Nothing happened. Nothing is supposed to happen, at least for me. Gnostic experience varies from person to person, but for me it’s always been about surcease. Gnosis is knowledge of certainty, of the river of life. Gnosis is understanding that there is nothing to do but to surrender to all that is and all that you are. Gnosis is understanding that everything will be alright, even if the choices you make lead to oblivion or the end of the world. Gnosis is living in heavenly emptiness until at last you have the courage to render the earth and move on.
Gnosis was a dark room with a plush couch, decent neck support, and the faint awareness of familiar company. Or at least, that’s how I woke up.
I was so serene I could’ve died right there, so I didn’t open my eyes. But, I heard George and Dahlia talking, their voices muffled, as if by a thin wall or door.
“Did you hear what he said?” George asked. “Did it make any sense to you?”
“No, I didn’t really take the time to listen; my attention was somewhat occupied by his face. Founders abound, at least most of the blood he leaked is where all the old blood stains are.”
        “Has he told you anything about what might be happening, why he’s changing?”
        “What do you think, George? I’ve only spoken to him once in the two weeks he’s been here.” She cursed under her breath. “Sometimes I think, I’d like him better if I wasn’t compelled to give a shit about him. You know what I mean? Like it’s cool when your friend is an extremely successful existential scholar, right up until he’s bleeding all over your floors and screaming cosmic truths. As far as I’m concerned, he might as well be a junkie, because junkies can also: ruin your living room, spray blood everywhere, and natter off a few compelling points about the nature of reality.”
        “I’m just so worried about him.”
        “Well, don’t be. Simon knows what he’s doing and he’s safe for the most part. In any case, he doesn’t care if you’re worried or not. Simon’s gonna do what he’ll do regardless of what you have to say about it or what will happen to you. Just do yourself a favor and write his dumbass off, do the bare minimum to help keep him alive then sleep in and roll over. Trust me, it works. I’ve been doing it longer than you have.”
        “I don’t understand how you can be so callous about this.”
        “It’s not my first rodeo with him, and he isn’t the first person to bring this sort of shit into my life.”
        Guilt started in on me and my serenity was suddenly marred. I opened my eyes but didn’t go to the door. Instead, I sat and thought a minute, about how I’d met the pair of them and what we’d done since.
        Dahlia and I met for the first time while I was on campaign with The Yews in The Abyss. We were being contracted by House Viveux and she was the agent they’d sent to monitor our work. We met several times after, somewhat infrequently, in the course of my time in Abyssal Commerce. Then I got out, she did her family in, and enough time passed that the story grew up and got around. We met around then, thirty migrations ago, and started a more serious friendship.
        I met George a migration later. He was making houses and buildings for a startup commune in The Second World. I’d taken a contract from the same startup, to tutor some of their people on the finer points of iconographic magic. We really hit it off and I even brought him back to Alms with me. Then, the three of us got together and the rest is history.
We had always been glad to talk about our work and not much besides, because all of us only had our work to think about. Dahlia had no family, I had clearly discounted my own family to pursue my research, and George never seemed to consider that there had ever been anything besides his artisanry.
Suddenly the lack of intimate knowledge made sense. The basis of our entire friendship had been predicated on the need to idle the hours when we couldn’t think about the things outside of ourselves. And those hours we would idle were spent on thoughtless things. What was there to remember or consider, in a friendship described by brief surcease and professional discourse? What did it matter if I couldn’t remember it? If, at the end of the day, it was still significant to me.
        My sudden exile seemed more alarming; my dramatic return seemed more heartless; and my pursuit of metamorphosis seemed even more selfish; as I finally perceived things as a participant rather than a spectator.
What had I done to these people that were my people? What had I done to those who weren’t? How much pain had I been in? Was it all worth it? Could I fix it? Those were the only questions I needed to answer.
I sat up and felt my face. Flesh, smooth and prickling flesh. The corporeal changes were beginning to make sense. The fits of amnesiac hysteria and the transitions into flesh, they were consequences of my growing proximity to the being I would inevitably become. Now that I was flesh and blood, that meant that I was very nearly done with my transformation. There would only be one more episode after this, as I went from being me to being Vincent.
I got to my feet, crossed the room, and opened the door. Dahlia and George were there, looking at me, respectively blase and nonplussed.
“Monarchs above, your face. Simon, your face.” George reached out and poked my cheek, his voice small.
“Good to see you made it all the way to having skin while I wasn’t looking.” Dahlia remarked. “Does this mean you’re back to normal?”
“Nearly, very nearly. But, there’s one last thing to do, before the end. I’m not sure what it is, but we’ll find out soon.”
“Will you tell us what’s happening?” George asked, his voice a little higher and tighter than normal. “Can we help you?”
I smiled, something glowing and beneficent. I felt it down in my toes, in my belly, my joy and relief in final understanding. Understanding fed me words and I spoke them. “You’ve already done what you were here to do for me. Later you will live another story, and do for another what you have done for me. I am sorry that you were made to be involved so early on, when your part comes so much later.” My smile faltered as the words stopped coming through me. There was nothing more to say but I was left with one last kernel of truth. I needed to go. I needed to go and leave them with the understanding that I would not return.
“Well, I’m dog tired. I just wanted to let you know that I’m alright and that things should be back to normal very soon. I’ll uh, I’ll have a speech for it in the morning.” I smiled at them. They seemed concerned and suitably suspicious but said nothing more and made no objection as I closed the door.
I retired to that beat up old couch and idled the hours with the butterflies in my belly. It was strange, sitting in my flesh and blood again; I was noticing things I had forgotten to notice in the migrations since my transformation. My senses weren’t restored to me, not in full. I only had the glinting awareness of sensation, like a faint humming in my head-- like the muffled harmony of a familiar tune. The primary consequence of this change seemed to be that my feelings were closer now-- more easily observed.
So I felt the butterflies pitter and patter about my ganglia and quietly reveled in the presence of their forgotten rhythm. Fear and angst filled me and I was reminded of long buried adolescence. Memories became roads and I walked a while in the reverie of a lifetime’s recounting. I searched for no epiphanies, no resolutions, and found none. I only let the past pass me by and remind me of the certainty that comes from the things that are done and over.
Night had well fallen when, at last, I departed the chateau.
Through silver corridors and shadowed silence, I wandered blindly, seeking a nameless vista. I don’t know where I ended up, I only knew that it was the right place.
I opened the door to an empty house and stepped inside.
The door closed and my story ended some hours later, at day break.








































Part III                                             Heaven












The Tower
Paradise is the ultimate promise of heaven, but a lotta work goes into creating paradise and you’re gonna do all of it, in the end.
        I found myself sitting across from a man in red rags, his face not masked but somewhat occluded by a snarl of dark hair and beard. He said nothing, just stared, his eyes the only defined and defining part of his physiognomy. They were bleary, standing with tears and burst corpuscles, fogged as much by inebriate as by exhaustion and malaise, and yet I saw that they were my eyes.
        The kinked snarl of hair parted, split by a zipper of yellow teeth. It was more grimace than smile, though truly neither word seemed likely to imprison the expression. I realized, a shade too late, that it would have been better to say it had been an omen.
        He laughed, ragged, choked, and brittle. It wasn’t my laugh, not as I had known it. This was the sound of cigarette smoke, heavy metal toxin, and cobwebs wrapped around the echo of mirth. And I could smell it, his half sensate joy, mingling with the scent of sweat and excrement. I gagged, and for awhile we made choked-wheezing noises together, sick with resolution.
        He spoke first, his voice rasping so badly that the sound was nearly motorized. “I didn’t think it’d work that time. I was just making noise, going through the motions, and praying that I’d stumbled on it, seems like we got some kind of intercession. And, thank The Names that we did, I don’t think I would’ve made the dance again.”
        My nausea had subsided somewhat. I managed to choke out: “What’s happening?”
        His smile never diminished, his mouth hardly moved when he spoke. “Oh don’t you wish I’d tell. No, I’m still bitter about the fact that I had to piece it together for myself, as The First. Maybe I’ll talk later, but certainly not now. Suffice it to say that you’re at square one and we’re stuck with each other until we get out.” He leaned back, “and you should expect to be stuck with me for quite some time.”
        I looked around, it was dark but the shapes resolved slowly into familiarity. “Is this my office?”
        He wobbled his head. “Technically my office. Yours was designed after mine, and this is where I’ve been habitating for... however long it’s been. I’m sure we’ll develop something like co-ownership after a while-- when things even up --but for now it’s definitely my office.”
        My head was rumbling, begging answers from this tableau, but there were none. This wasn’t supposed to be happening.
        “I know what that face feels like, but it’s strange seeing it from this end of things. It’s alright, though, you won’t have to wear it nearly as long as I had to. You’ll just have to go ahead and wear it as long as I like, which shouldn’t be nearly so long at all.” Then he sat there and leered at me.
        It was as if he’d had a stroke, like his face had been arranged by a lewd mortician who had colored his cheeks with alcoholic rouge and poxy scars.
        Who was this man? He couldn’t have been me, his body bore too many marks of a life vividly lived. This wasn’t a bookish recluse, an eminent scholar; this was a crass, athletic, sanguine, and active man; his build like a retired dancer; his complexion like a veteran hedonist.
        His expression changed in an instant from something nearly perverse to confusion, like he’d switched masks instead of feeling differently. “Oh, that’s different. I guess I didn’t have anyone to be disappointed in when it was my time. Mmm...” his face jumped back into its natural state, a leer. “It is so good to see my face do something new.” He clapped absently, the action intrusive and at ill odds with his mien. “It’s so fine that I’ll reward you. Ask me anything and I’ll reward you with a true answer.”
        My eyes took a moment to flick away from his face, so that I could think. My mouth reached for a number of more abstract questions, but I pushed them away and singled out my most pertinent query. “How can you and I be the same person?”
        He clapped again. “How’d I know that you were going to ask that?” His leer downshifted into a grin. I couldn’t tell if it looked pained or painful. “I’ve been writing your life from inside this office. I’ve had more than a few drafts. It took me a while, but eventually I settled on a basic model for my second self. I lived, fought, killed, fucked, loved, lost, got sick, stayed sick, learned insanities from stigmatics, and obtained power from beings more vile than me. I figured it didn’t work out so well for me, so I thought I’d steer you in the opposite direction. Now you’re here: a celibate scholar with a clean intellect, a mind unburdened by a need for the interpersonal, violent anxiety, and knowledge bleached of insanity.” A little of the haze in his eyes fell away, and I saw that indeed his expression was pained. “Together we might even amount to a real boy.”
        “What do you mean you’ve been writing my life?”
        Slate. His face went still and flat as slate, wiped of mirth and pain. His voice became smooth. “That would be telling and there’ll be none of it for free.”
        I worked my jaw and gripped the arms of my chair. Anger and anxiety were circling in my belly, an armature spinning around a pole of natural born nausea. It might’ve been a galvanizing sensation, were I not certain that I’d vomit if I opened my mouth or moved at all. 
        “Oh you might just want to let it all out. This is gonna shape up to be brutally bad.”
        I closed my eyes, shook my head, took a firm hold of my seat and turned it around before settling back down. 
        “That’s just as well, I have some things to figure out, myself. How about I give us both a maze to think about it?” There was the sound of scraping wood and I felt a lurching sensation.
        When I opened my eyes, I was in my office, sitting behind my desk. There was no sound, a stillness dominated the entirety of the space, such that it ceased to be anything like my office and was once again foreign.
        I didn’t puke, but I did lay my head against the chill varnish and I wept a little.
        Not only was the ride not over, it had just started. Worse, in the absence of confident knowledge and the means to apply it, I was left to drown in the sensation of smallness while I continued to make attempts at resolving this mystery.
        Time was no longer of any matter to me, I knew that instinctively-- not that it had held any particular sway over me before. So, I sat there and cried a little while I was swallowed whole, went to sleep, and woke to be swallowed again. I learned, in that way, that I could no longer dream.
        Not a curse so much as a blessing. I was glad to at last, have time where thought would abate and mean not a thing.
        I’ll spare you any thorough account of my tribulation because I think you have read your fair share of that. Suffice it to say that I recovered, and this time I didn’t need to have a psychotic episode about it.
        I had no idea how long I’d been at my grief but felt like I needed to get up and move. So I gave my office a more than cursory inspection, found nothing outstanding, and then tried the door.
        It didn’t open to my hall, though it did open to a hall. It was a short corridor that forked left and right, made of alabaster and lit by bald light. Seems he was serious about putting a maze between him and I.
        I walked the corridors for a while, taking my turns at random and making no effort to recall my steps. The puzzle, I knew, would be meaningless, artless. This was just a pretense to mystery, a play for time, and an attempt to convey some minor revelation. It seemed to be the only game I could fangle.
        The story came as I walked when the walls changed and murals passed my eyes. They said nothing to me, the images incapable of passing the jade of my mind. It wasn’t even information at this point.
        He must have sensed my lack of decorum because, all of a sudden, the maze came to an end and I was back in the office again, standing at the wrong end of the desk. He was shaving, standing in profile to me.
        “You know,” he said, lips curled away from the razor, “you could’ve at least walked a little slower. I just needed a little time to get pretty.” He’d just gotten through the right half of his face. “Tsk! Afraid that the hair’s irretrievable, though. I didn’t think to bring a detangler.” He set his razor down and started snipping at the other half of his face. He cast an eye over me, “Not that I expect you to respect decorum.”
        “You had forever to get started with your grooming.”
        “Yes well, we’re serial procrastinators in every life. Besides, I thought I’d have more time when you started going through the maze, you know, what with all the cool visual storytelling I did on the walls.”
        “I don’t guess you’ve ever heard of the ‘Straight Line’?”
        “Yeah, and you know what? It’s a real good way to miscommunicate complex ideas.”
        “It’s probably better than putting it all at the center of an extremely paranoid, very old, metaphorical tree.”
        “Eh?”
        “Many concentric rings of paranoia? See what I mean? It’s a really terrible way to communicate.”
        “I think you might just be bad at it.”
        “Wouldn’t that, by extension, make you bad at it?”
        “Once upon a time, yes. But after a great-great many failures and naps, I’ve gotten halfway decent. How else would you have gotten here?” He’d finished trimming his beard and had reached for his razor when he stopped and grinned into his mirror. He turned his head towards me. The shaved half of his face was locked into the caricature of a smile. The other half, the one with a newly neat beard, was twisted into a frighteningly ugly frown. He spoke and neither half of his face moved. “Besides, we can’t assume you and I are good at the same things. I’ll bet you never learned how to do this? You probably can’t even speak out of the side of your mouth. Do a card trick? Pull a rabbit out of your ass?” He let his mask drop into his usual lock-jaw grin. “Mystery is an anathema to you, because you’re a scholar and it has to be. And, worse than a scholar, you’re a secular empiricist, so it’s doubly anathema. But you’re damn good for chasing it down, wearing it out, picking it apart, and eating its leavings until it’s dead and you can scavenge it. I should know, I made you. I, on the other hand, am The Mystery. I am the god at the end of your carrion career, and I’m here to teach you that God has never had an answer to give, just another hassle for you to be worn down by-- until you calm down, get old, and die. You’re a vulture and I’m your father, the great beast.” His face reverted to its theatrical state. “See? You’ve never been so poetical in your whole life.”
        “But I’ve spoken more sense and I’ve been just as bleak.”
        “You’re a fool to think it bleak. You and your species of consciousness would hunt Mystery to extinction if you weren’t limited by the fundamentally divine nature of mystery.”
        “Which is what?”
        “That it is only ever itself. In resolving your first, you are given another, endlessly, until at last you are so far ahead that you have forgotten the first and you realize you’ve been walking a sphere and not a plane. That is a very real danger for us, seeing as we aren’t in danger of dying and we will be ourselves for all time and all being.”
        I had to admit, he was certainly compelling, if not entirely sensible. “Enough with the diatribe. What is this place?.”
        “That is...” he shook his head, “difficult to express.”
His face dropped into a frown. “Imagine that your entire lifetime could possess a persistently realized physical dimension: that your life, from start to finish, was marked by a visible trail of self which included not only physical being, but also your awareness and conscious presence. While this trail is present in its entirety when perceived from a certain elevation in Time, it is otherwise realized in other planes of existence, in different pieces. The mental fraction of this trail is realized in its entirety from within The Mnemesne, it’s how it documents the world and generates the other aspects of itself. In the course of attaining an Edifice, this band of you becomes isolated from The Mnemesne, such that the physical evidence of your passage through time is recorded, but your mind becomes unknowable and freely mutable. A consequence of your newly mutable mind and its separation from Time is the ability to freely navigate your entire conscious experience as an observer. Being magicians, observation is enough and so we also have the ability to affect that experience to a limited degree. This has some... causal/temporal consequences. Every change you apply to your life creates another stream of life. That stream can do what we’ve done, attain the edifice and enter this place, or fail and fall about it like a shadow. You and I were under the impression that we could obtain and construct the edifice on our own, but in fact you need a multiplicity of selves. The entire causal span of your existence has to align and obtain the edifice, meaning the infinite span of you and all the choices you have made, have to all conclude in The Edifice. That’s not so bad though, because rather than do this an infinite number of times, we can do it just once more. From three there’s a contagion effect throughout our continuum of being, we’d be the basic triangle from which all shapes and forms would be constructed.” He paused and realized he hadn’t quite told me where we were. “This is all to say that we are, for practical purposes, living within our Edifice, which exists as an isolated subdivision of The Mnemesne that intersects the complete span of Eydre.”
        I sat there and regarded him mutely, my face falling a little. “I don’t think I’ve ever realized how terrible my word economy is. You really just waxed prosaic, slapped some random jargon in, and elected to call it an explanation. Didn’t you?”
        “If I’d made you less of a half wit about this sort of shit, you’d get it. But I really couldn’t take the chance that you’d just discover the anomaly on your own, and I don’t have a use for redundant knowledge.”
        “What do you mean, ‘made me’?”
        “Made you. As in, I’ve been guiding the entire span of your life. Made you, like...” half of his face went grim and the other smirked madly. “Like I’m your god.” Both halves resolved into a mad grin. “Would you be a dear and pay me some worship? Leave a sacrifice? Maybe raise a virgin or three?” His face snapped back into something affable, “I’d say live piously, but I’ve already made you chaste.”
        “Stop saying you made me.”
        “But I did, darling. I really really did. From embryo to death. You really only came into independence within the last four or five months.” He saw the look on my face and quickly amended, “It’s not like you haven’t been conscious for most of it, I’ve just been pushing you here and there. You’ve been having the whole mortal experience, but you’ve been working within a frame of predestination. Which, I just want to say, I am sorry for. I’m not like a fascist or anything. Well... well maybe by action but not because I want to be or because I endorse it. You know back in my time I was really--”
        “So you were definitely the one behind the Mystery Play, the Mental Blocks, and the various terrible events that’ve gone on for the last few months?”
        He thought, wobbled his head, and nodded. “Well yes, that. And, I’m probably guilty of a lot of other terrible things in-- or adjacent to --your life.”
        I pursed my lips and nodded. “Welp.” I shrugged, leapt out of my seat, and dove over the top of the desk, my hands reaching.
        Being from Eydre, and not belonging to any sort of ritual warrior society, I only had the barest notion about fighting with my hands. I was, however, reasonably athletic and hoped that that would compensate.
        It didn’t.
        Apparently my double wasn’t nearly as unskilled as I was, because he didn’t miss a beat. He tipped the chair back as I went sailing through the air and hit the floor while I passed over him. Then, as I tumbled into the back wall of the office, I saw him tense and spring, bringing himself and the chair upright while he remained seated. To punctuate the slapstick insult, he awkwardly turned the chair around with a series of scoots and hops. “Now I get that you’re mad.”
        I ripped a wooden charm out of my pocket and brandished it at him. The sigil found his eyes and the charm splintered. I almost had the opportunity to relish a victory, but the other me defied my expectations again.
        He flew out of his seat and snapped into motion, his rags flagging wildly about him.
        Like the degenerate offspring of a chameleon, peacock, and ballerina; my alternate sprang into a dance that made his whole being ripple with color and pattern, changing him from a man into a tangled nexus of dynamism. The directive of the charm misted out of the chaos a moment later, a packet of sensory information that clearly declared to the world that it had once been a Spell of Pondering-- a spell which would fill the victim with racing thoughts, existential dread, and an obsessive need to compute solutions to pointless puzzles. I’d learned from The Contortionist’s example during the prison break and developed a spell that I was well adapted to resist.
        My Alternate reverted to his original form, a little sweaty, and said: “I really do have you beat in every confrontational department. I spent too much of my life doing this shit. I don’t advise conflict, it’s not what you’re made for.”
        “Again with the whole made--”
        He rolled his eyes and cut me off with volume. “Oh boo-fuckin-hoo!” He screamed, some old-forgotten pain being recalled as his larynx jumped into gear. “So you’re not as much of an individual as you thought? So the entire scope of your life has been a bad book? Who cares? Who could care? What way hasn’t been walked, paved, urbanized, made high, been destroyed, walked, and paved a thousand times before? This is not a universe of firsts or I’s. This is a world of frequencies and vogues. Time is too old and has been around the block too many times to watch anything but a rerun, to tread anything but old ground. Time is senile, we are senile, we are all just walking on and on pretending the world is flat and that there is no recurrence! Shut the fuck up and quit with your whinging, because this whole epiphany about your lack of individual rights isn’t even the worst thing. The worst thing is that I’m about to tell you that unless you do it to yourself again, we’re going to be stuck here forever. That in doing it again, we’re going to do it a million times while half asleep and then that’ll be the end. I’m saying that this was the perfection you were looking for and that you may as well stop being such a contrary twat.”
        I snarled wordlessly. This was wrong. This wasn’t what I had wanted to buy. This wasn’t the state of consciousness I’d been chasing my whole life. This wasn’t the perfection for which I had sacrificed-- which I had been made to sacrifice --so much for. This was just another raw deal, like all the others in all the lives of all the beings I had strived to be unlike. This ideal, for which I had sacrificed so much, was only more of the same.
        This was the edifice of my lifetime, all that I had worked toward, my purpose. This was the tower I had built to say I Am and I Was. This was paying the piper. This was the tower of shame and regret coming down over my ears, leaving the shell of an achievement to mock me and tell the world of my foolishness.
The Machine
The issue with being alive is the whole business of forgetting. This is never more in evidence than in the case of the Repeated Mistake, a hallmark of any lifetime.
        Perfection is a raw deal and it’s only ever more of the same.
        How many times had I received that epiphany? How many times in the course of my life as a career scholar? How many times in all those lives beside mine? And yet I had only ever gotten over it, went on doing as I had done, and come back to the same conclusion. It was a cycle, a mechanism of my lifetime whose purpose was unknown to me.
        Maybe Disappointment is supposed to be a governor for the Lifetime. Maybe it levels off spikes in the catalysis of drama and progress. Maybe it’s a clock? a yardstick? Who knows and, more importantly, who can say?
        I couldn’t. So I did what all living things do.
        I got over it, adapted to the pain, and got on doing what I had done my whole life.
        I buried myself in the assimilation of information.
        My alternate had kept records. Bad records, but records nonetheless. They weren’t dated and though they were sequenced, they were organized in discontinuous clusters, which meant I had no way of knowing which lifetimes had preceded others. Which was, ultimately, irrelevant, but it would’ve been nice to know.
        Of greater interest to me was the fact that he seemed to have no faculty with sigil magic or any variety of scholarly mysticism. My own records, in my office, are compressed into Phrases which store an imprint of my engrams at the time of the record’s creation and also contact the remnants of those same engrams when I consult them. That means every single one of my cases, researches, and investigations fit neatly onto a single piece of paper. It was standard practice in the scholastic community to either do it yourself or consult a specialist to do it for you, it was easier to avoid misunderstandings with a memetic transmission than with a standard professional/research exposition. It was interesting to me that he couldn’t do it and hadn’t bothered to have a Spirit or Entity do it for him. It served to further evidence his lack of familiarity with my own species of magic and to illuminate the character of his.
        Gestural magic was common enough and fit neatly into most conceptions of magic. The natural continuation of gestural magic, then, was performative magic-- magic dependent on choreographies involving the whole body in simple, as well as complex, arrangements. Performative magic was rare amongst mortal practitioners, if only because it’s hard enough to be a performer, let alone a magical adept. Those few mortals that practiced in that style tended to belong to Warrior Societies-- guilds of magic that made their money as contract mercenaries in The Eight Worlds --where their mandatory physical conditioning made them naturally suited to the labor of militancy.
        The Yews were one such guild, and I had even been on contract with them at one point in time. I had served as a quartermaster, postmaster, and communications officer at different times for a number of years for different retinues and contingents. Something told me that my alternate had had his own history with The Yews but that he hadn’t served in a non-combative capacity. Indeed, The Yews themselves hosted a proprietary tradition of magic which was rumored to have its roots in a tradition of dance native to The Old World Ancestors of the modern day inhabitants of Faerie. It was only a rumor though, they trained only a few in their methods and seldom deployed it in large scale maneuvers.
        This all implied to me that my Alternate was a military man, or at least someone who had spent much of his life entrenched in violence and the art of the body. The issue, then, was determining which class of magician he belonged to. Certainly not an Heir, there’d be a conflict of parentage, but then he’d either be a Priest or else a Loremaster and both seemed to fit him poorly. Then again, there were other brands of magician, though I wasn’t familiar with the nomenclature or literature on them. There was an entire metamagical field on the subject of the types of magician, but I-- and many other scholars --had never paid the research much heed, if only because it seemed ultimately superfluous. He had mentioned, somewhere in his monologuing, that he’d studied with ‘Stigmatics’ and ‘beings more vile than he.’ That left me no closer to understanding the nature of his power but it was something and it made me comfortable with placing him outside of my current understanding.
        I’m sure you’re wondering about the arrangement of space between him and I; if we only sat around the same room and read or else brooded at each other.
        We don’t.
        Once I’d grasped that we were not only in The Mnemesne, but also strikingly near to my lifetime, I understood that the terrain was both incidental and malleable. So, the first thing I did was shunt myself out of the office and into a low, dark, place.
        Dark, in the sense that it was mood lit. I could still read and see where I’d ended up.
        It was nowhere that I had actually been, but rather a chimera of places I had been. Partly my attic; my cell in The High Barrow; and the chamber I’d laid up in, in Chateau Vivieux.
        There was a big marble countertop, a wall of filing cabinets, office supplies, and a nice, cool, atmosphere. Pair that with the fact that I still had the pack that George had given me, and I quickly realized that I had found that fraction of heaven that was paradise.
        In addition to all the supplies I could ever need to practice my art, I also had an entire host of literature that included all the books and papers I had ever read as well as all the case files my alternate had written.
        You can imagine that I was immediately interested in finding the case files directly relating to my own situation but there was no such luck; he was not only disorganized, he was very fanciful, vague, and prone to maudlin digressions. I was, however, able to develop a series of useful facts through my analysis of the files.
        There had been two general models of self that he had attempted to construct before arriving at me. I have arbitrarily noted one as The First and the other as The Second.
The First had been very much like my Alternate but with a sort of morosely clinical bent; he’d been a Loremaster with a field of study rooted in smithing, metallurgy, chymicae, and medicine. There were one hundred and twelve iterations of his design and many of them had concluded in suicide. And in the cases where he hadn’t killed himself, he had been murdered or-- in one case --he had simply passed into Faerie as an inhabitant and given up his mortal roles-- which was arguably worse.
        The Second had been a warrior of the ascetic variety. He was another loremaster, though his focus was in Ritual Magic of The Militant style. Principally an historian and archaeologist, The Second had frequented the Eight Worlds on expedition. His goal was to uncover the specific nature of The War in the Old World and to uncover the secrets of The Founders. He was never particularly successful, because he tended to die heroically. In one case, however, he’d uncovered a relic and was emancipated from my Alternate’s perceptions and directives. The notes failed to mention the nature of the relic, save that it was supposed to have been an old war machine. There had been one hundred and fifty three iterations of The Second.
        In both cases, it seemed that he had intended to use both lifetimes as a sort of sense organ. He had needed to expand his awareness of Eydre and so had generated two instances of insight with similar but separate characteristics. The First had been an empathetic insight into: life, the spectra of suffering native to it, and the methods involved with surpassing it physically and mentally. The Second had been a dispassionate insight into: conflict, as it had been, as it is, and how best to employ it. And, in addition to those unique perspectives, he’d gathered information about the organizations and traditions within Eydre.
        For example, The First encountered The Thesiers several times in different iterations before eventually initiating into the order in one. Afterwards, initiation or close association with The Thesiers became a staple of nearly every iteration in either model. My Alternate had noted the powers and experiences native to the discipline as being invaluable.
 The Second was a graduate of Cayrel and introduced the Guilds as a strong influence in either lifetime.
        Following The First and Second, there had been a long string of one off failures; where he had attempted to arbitrarily blend traits and disciplines in order to brute force a resolution. My own model was the net result of those failures, as was the introduction of George and Dahlia as companions-- they had been recurrent positive features of the iterations.
        Even after arriving at me, he’d been hard pressed to make me work.
        There were three columns on my iteration, bonafide columns. They’d been organized into three kinds of terminations: Suicide, Murdered and Murder-Suicide, and finally Accidents Unforseen. Accidents Unforseen was half again as tall as either stack. Being the magician with the most direct and substantial involvement in mental magic, I’d pickled my brain many times over. That I had stopped lobotomizing myself so frequently was due to my Alternate’s direct and persistent intervention.
        What was most telling, out of all this information, was my Alternate’s dedication to constructing me. I mean every other model had a specific function to fulfill. Why me? What function did I serve in his machine, why did he consider me essential?
        I was unique for my employment of sigil magic, but clearly He had his own method for wiring and instituting changes in consciousness and intention. Nothing else was special about my model, though. Everything, including the involvement with The Sun Cults, The Idols, George, Dahlia, and truly any other component of my life had been realized many times over in other iterations and models.
        And then it clicked.
        I wasn’t essential, I was only the resultant in this computation, the only possible and appropriate vector in the chaotic morass of life. I wasn’t special, I merely contained all those qualities that made his end goal possible. I was point B and he had worked all this time to resolve my position so that we could arrive at C, together.
        The Machine of Heaven does not work to construct the discontinuous, the divergent function. No, the purpose of Heaven is to resolve all things into continuity; that is why it stands at the end of all things.
        It had been my life-long imperative to come into a singularity, so that I could resolve into product and become one component in another discontinuous being. My purpose had been, and would always be, to birth Vincent into the world.
        If only I knew why.
        For what reason had my Alternate begun this enterprise? Why had he chosen to construct the edifice of Vincent? Or was he, like me, only the product of Divine Imperative? Could the quantification of his motive resolve the question?
        No.
        If you think my leap into the realm of doctrine is strange, I’ll ask you to consider one thing: why is there infrastructure for this sort of thing? Why is there a mechanism for transubstantiation, like there is a mechanism for gravitation, fluid dynamics, and biology?
        Certainly someone made it. That someone may have even been mortal at one time or another.
        All I knew for sure was that a being that could operate on this plane of complexity and support the changes therein was a God with respect to me. It didn’t matter the source of power, because my nomenclature is irrelevant. I could say that this smacked of Greater Consensus, but that wouldn’t mean anything.
        The Machine was inevitable and I was eternally its part as well as its continuity. All the information I had gone through and all that I knew supported the thesis that what is Divine is inevitable and eternal. I had attained Heaven and was now Divine, and therefore had no alternative but to concede to the mathematical certainty of my eventual concession and obeisance.
        In the moment of my epiphany, I conceded to the dispassionate butchery of myself in the search for my terminal.
        The Paradise of Heaven is not in earthly delight but in victory over The Individual, over The Moment. The Paradise of Heaven is the emergence of continuity, pattern, and order without passion, only directive. The Paradise of Heaven is Certainty.
        I don’t know when He and I stopped using those words, when we stopped seeing One and Other, or when we ceded the functioning of two bodies in favor of one. But from us, came a world.
        I sought trinity through the haze of infinite self recursion.
        And all I can say is that I found it, eventually.
#


































The Terminal
He marveled at the insidious principle of the Old Machine. From where he stood, he could see Simon’s edifice going up, parting The Sky with a shining, living, silhouette and casting long shadows.
        That wasn’t actually happening, of course. That was just how he was interpreting the monad. He couldn’t even quite see what Simon’s edifice was. He just knew that it was the tallest thing he’d ever seen; that it was the greatest thing he had ever seen; that it was a bridge with which to seize heaven.
        The Abbott smiled inwardly. This was his doing, as much as it had been Simon’s, and it showed, because strewn about this hidden layer of The Mnemense were all the Edifices that had ever been raised in Eydre; and in the light of Simon’s great and shining singularity, they looked pale, meager, ruined, and crumbling.
That was the power of The Sun, as it lived on The Earth, to blind all things to anything but the wonder of itself; to cast doubt and aspersions on those things that had once seemed so particular to the condition of life.
He had given that to Simon, the power of The Sun; because Simon had given it to him in The Beginning. But more than that, he had also given Simon a Lie, which was an even greater gift than The Sun itself.
What, afterall, is the point of a Tower-- an Altar --if it contains no plunder, no secret, no prisoner, no victim? That was what had really made this all such a success, the fact that this Edifice was not a dedication to emancipation, greater power, or perfection. No, Simon’s Edifice stood, larger than life, because it was dedicated to a Lie. 
Simon would stand vast in the minds of the many, an old-new symbol of worship that would satisfy a long neglected niche in the mind. They would not know his name, they would not know his story in certain terms, but they would see themselves and know they had something to thank. They would know that that something was fallible and that all things written in its light were fallible. There would be great discord as the infinite causal mass of Simon’s work crushed the minds of the many with scenes from lives that never were.
        Madness would reign in the name of Heaven, and he had done it.
        He had done it with a simple misrepresentation of his goals. He had done it with a conflation of truth.
        Simon had treated with him because he believed they both wanted Power to further their ends and attain their goals. But, The Abbott was not after Power, The Abbott was after Change.
        Simon had begged his secret knowledge of Edifices, and The Abbott had told him that he would obtain Power, the Will Untethered, and the ability to come to whatever end he wished.
        The Edifice offered those things, indeed it did. But Power is a chain and Will is a tug; being bound and without impulse he would have no end to wish for. Simon was an impotent symbol of power; the world's greatest bluff; the mountain in the sky; an illusion that would outstrip all things ‘real’. Better than all of that, Simon believed this lie.
        God had been lied to and was now a prisoner, all his faithful would know it and be unmoved; all the heathen would follow him in ignorance; all the world would tell a joke.
        He could see The Edifice more clearly now. It was a man.
#
With the disappearance of Simon, George and Dahlia found he loomed large in their minds.
        Not in the sense that they deeply missed him-- though they did --but in that their minds were awash with memory and sensation as pertained to him. These memories, these recalled senses and feelings, they knew couldn’t be theirs and yet they realized that they must have been; they felt like permutations of feeling and recollection, they felt false, and yet they couldn’t deny them. They went mad together, for a time. They emerged from madness pressed uniformly with the impression of Simon. They emerged from madness in the shape of twin apostles. They emerged from madness as lovers and walked into the new world, hand in hand.
        They went walking, the two greatest harbors of my shadow.
        They went walking and were worshiped in the way that whores without unions are worshiped. They were used up, imposed upon, and cast away. They went walking as Less than They Once Were and were not the only ones to have been similarly transfigured by my Apotheosis.
#
Bain found in me The Devil. The Great Beast unto whom his will and vengeance could be turned on.
        He was not much touched by my shadow or the light of my edifice. But it was influence enough for Bain to mark a direct corollary between anything that ever went wrong and myself.
        He rallied a great many magicians into opposition against the sweeping movement that had been wrought by Apotheosis. He wielded the Mighty Sword of Conservatism that clove the world into greater partisanship. He saw The Devil in me and did not realize that he was what he saw.
        Secretly, he would wonder if maybe he’d followed me because he’d had the sense that doing so would give him power. He wondered if he was any better than my followers, if the only end of chasing me was potency.
        He would go on to cut away his living mind and live as I live, as a symbol.
        Though, being mortal, he would have no means of overcoming his stasis of consciousness.
#
Magic entered into a state of flux, changed by the impossible currents and eddies of itself within my edifice. Those traditions nearest to my lifetime were eradicated entirely, made moribund unless realized through the worship of this new, nameless, deity. Thesieria and many species of Lore Magic went extinct for a time, until rediscovered by those following my Apostles. This had lasting consequences.
        Without Thesiers, magic could not be reconciled into general forms. Without Thesiers there was no magic to conclude what constituted the essential experience of anything. Connection between traditions of magic would, inevitably, break down without it; and The Truth would no longer be universally accessible, rifts in perception would form as time went on.
        With the increased rarity of Lore Magic, the majority of Magicians became impotent and the Guilds shrunk down to a tenth of their original size. The magical workforce became overburdened and this inevitably resulted in the dissolution of the Guilds. Many enchantments evoked through lores lost their power, resulting in a general reduction in quality of life for all Eydrians. And, given that I was most commonly a scholar, scholasticism suffered the most significant blow. A truly vast gulf of general knowledge became lost to all Magicians and further aggressed the nascent rifts in magical as well as natural perception.
        That these powers would later come to rest in the hands of a monolithic cult spelt out further loss and greater discord for the peoples of Eydre. But it also meant a significant fraction of magic could now be consolidated into a single system.
Left to realize the specific nature of this new world, to resolve those mysteries left unsolved, is Vincent; the mystery himself. His tale is next.
#